=head1 NAME

kauthrc - DTKA key authority administration commands file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

DTKA key authority administration commands are passed to B<kaadmin> either
in a file of text lines or interactively at B<kaadmin>'s command prompt
(:).  Commands are interpreted line-by line, with exactly one command per
line.  The formats and effects of the DTKA key authority administration
commands are described below.

=head1 COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<?>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<h> command.

=item B<#>

Comment line.  Lines beginning with B<#> are not interpreted.

=item B<e> { 1 | 0 }

Echo control.  Setting echo to 1 causes all output printed by kaadmin to be
logged as well as sent to stdout.  Setting echo to 0 disables this behavior.

=item B<v> 

Version number.  Prints out the version of ION currently installed.  HINT:
combine with B<e 1> command to log the version number at startup.

=item B<1>

The B<initialize> command.  Until this command is executed, the DTKA key
authority function is not in operation on the local ION node and most
I<kaadmin> commands will fail.

=item B<i>

The B<info> This command will print information about the current state
of the local node's DTKA key authority function, including the current
settings of all parameters that can be managed as described below.

=item B<s>

The B<start> command.  This command starts the B<karecv>, B<kacompile>,
and B<kapublish> tasks for the local DTKA key authority function.

=item B<m compiletime> I<time>

The B<manage compile time> command.  This command sets the time at which
the key authority node will next compile a bulletin.  The command is
not needed in normal operations, because future compile times are computed
automatically as bulletins are compiled. I<time> must be in
yyyy/mm/dd-hh:mm:ss format.

=item B<m interval> I<bulletin_compilation_interval>

The B<manage bulletin compilation interval> command.  This interval,
expressed as a number of seconds, controls the period on which the key
authority node will compile new key information bulletins.  The default
value is 3600 (one hour).

=item B<m grace> I<bulletin_consensus_grace_time>

The B<manage bulletin consensus grace time> command.  This interval,
expressed as a number of seconds, controls the length of time the key
authority node will wait after publishing a bulletin before computing
a consensus bulletin; this parameter is intended to relax the degree
to which the system clocks of all members of the distributed key
authority must be in agreement.  The default value is 60 (1 minute).

=item B<+> I<authority_array_index> I<node_number>

This command asserts that the trusted Nth member of the distributed key
authority, where N is the I<authority_array_index> value, is the
node identified by I<node_number>.

=item B<-> I<authority_array_index>

This command asserts that the Nth member of the distributed key
authority, where N is the I<authority_array_index> value, is no longer
a trusted member of the distributed key authority; bulletins received
from this key authority member must be discarded.

=item B<x>

The B<stop> command.  This command stops the B<karecv>, B<kacompile>,
and B<kapublish> tasks for the local DTKA key authority function.

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<?> command.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item + 3 6913

Asserts that node 6913 is now member 3 of the distributed key authority.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

kaadmin(1), dtka(3)
