=head1 NAME

knoderc - DTKA user configuration commands file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

DTKA user configuration commands are passed to B<knadmin> either
in a file of text lines or interactively at B<knadmin>'s command prompt
(:).  Commands are interpreted line-by line, with exactly one command per
line.  The formats and effects of the DTKA key authority administration
commands are described below.

=head1 COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<?>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<h> command.

=item B<#>

Comment line.  Lines beginning with B<#> are not interpreted.

=item B<e> { 1 | 0 }

Echo control.  Setting echo to 1 causes all output printed by knadmin to be
logged as well as sent to stdout.  Setting echo to 0 disables this behavior.

=item B<v> 

Version number.  Prints out the version of ION currently installed.  HINT:
combine with B<e 1> command to log the version number at startup.

=item B<1>

The B<initialize> command.  Until this command is executed, the DTKA user
function is not in operation on the local ION node and most I<knadmin>
commands will fail.

=item B<i>

The B<info> This command will print information about the current state
of the local node's DTKA user function, including the current settings of
all parameters that can be managed as described below.

=item B<s>

The B<start> command.  This command starts the B<knclock> and B<knmgr>
tasks for the local DTKA user function.

=item B<m keygentime> I<time>

The B<manage key generation time> command.  This command sets the time at
which the node will next generate a public/private key pair and multicast
the public key.  The command is not needed in normal operations, because
future key generation times are computed automatically as key pairs are
generated. I<time> must be in yyyy/mm/dd-hh:mm:ss format.

=item B<m interval> I<key_pair_generation_interval>

The B<manage key pair generation interval> command.  This interval,
expressed as a number of seconds, controls the period on which the key
authority node will generate new public/private key pairs.  The default
value is 604800 (one week).

=item B<m leadtime> I<key_pair_effectivenes_lead_time>

The B<manage key pair effectivenes lead time> command.  This interval,
expressed as a number of seconds, controls the length of time after the
time of key pair generation at which the key pair will become effective.
The default value is 345600 (four days).

=item B<m authority> I<authority_array_index> I<node_number>

This command asserts that the Nth member of the distributed key
authority, where N is the I<authority_array_index> value, is the
node identified by I<node_number>.

=item B<x>

The B<start> command.  This command starts the B<knclock> and B<knmgr>
tasks for the local DTKA user function.

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<?> command.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item m authority 3 6913

Asserts that node 6913 is member 3 of the distributed key authority.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

knadmin(1), dtka(3)
