=head1 NAME

tcarc - Trusted Collective authority configuration commands file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TC authority configuration commands are passed to B<tcaadmin> either
in a file of text lines or interactively at B<tcaadmin>'s command prompt
(:).  Commands are interpreted line-by line, with exactly one command per
line.  The formats and effects of the TC authority configuration
commands are described below.

=head1 COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<?>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<h> command.

=item B<#>

Comment line.  Lines beginning with B<#> are not interpreted.

=item B<e> { 1 | 0 }

Echo control.  Setting echo to 1 causes all output printed by tcaadmin to be
logged as well as sent to stdout.  Setting echo to 0 disables this behavior.

=item B<v> 

Version number.  Prints out the version of ION currently installed.  HINT:
combine with B<e 1> command to log the version number at startup.

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<?> command.

=item B<1> I<multicast_group_number_for_TC_bulletins> I<multicast_group_number_for_TC_records> I<number_of_authorities_in_collective> I<K> I<R>

The B<initialize> command.  Until this command is executed, the authority
function for the selected TC application is not in operation on the local
ION node and most I<tcaadmin> commands will fail.

I<K> is the mandated B<diffusion> for the selected TC application, i.e.,
the number of blocks into which each bulletin of published TC information
is divided for transmission.

I<R> is the mandated B<redundancy> for the selected TC application, i.e.,
the percentage of blocks issued per bulletin that will be parity blocks
rather than extents of the bulletin itself.

=item B<i>

The B<info> This command will print information about the current state
of the authority function for the selected TC application on the local
node, including the current settings of all parameters that can be
managed as described below.

=item B<s>

The B<start> command.  This command starts the B<tcarecv> and B<tcacompile>
daemons of the authority function for the selected TC application on the
local node.

=item B<m compiletime> I<time>

The B<manage compile time> command.  This command sets the time at which
the authority function for the selected TC application on this node will next
compile a bulletin.  The command is not needed in normal operations, because
future compile times are computed automatically as bulletins are compiled.
I<time> must be in yyyy/mm/dd-hh:mm:ss format.

=item B<m interval> I<bulletin_compilation_interval>

The B<manage bulletin compilation interval> command.  This interval,
expressed as a number of seconds, controls the period on which the 
authority function for the selected TC appliction on this node will
compile new key information bulletins.  The default value is 3600 (one hour).

=item B<m grace> I<bulletin_consensus_grace_time>

The B<manage bulletin consensus grace time> command.  This interval,
expressed as a number of seconds, controls the length of time the
authority function for the selected TC application on this node  will
wait after publishing a bulletin before computing a consensus bulletin;
this parameter is intended to relax the degree to which the system
clocks of all members of the collective authority for this TC
application must be in agreement.  The default value is 60 (1 minute).

=item B<+> I<authority_array_index> I<node_number>

This command asserts that the trusted Nth member of the collective authority
for the selected TC application, where N is the I<authority_array_index>
value, is the node identified by I<node_number>.

=item B<-> I<authority_array_index>

This command asserts that the Nth member of the collective authority for
the selected TC application, where N is the I<authority_array_index> value,
is no longer trusted; bulletins received from this collective authority
member must be discarded.

=item B<a> I<node_number>

This command adds the node identified by I<node_number> to the list of nodes
hosting B<authorized_clients> for the selected TC application.  Once this
list has been populated, TC records for this application that are received
from clients residing on nodes that are not in the list are automatically
discarded by the authority function residing on the local node.

=item B<d> I<node_number>

This command deletes the node identified by I<node_number> from the list of
nodes hosting B<authorized_clients> for the selected TC application.

=item B<l>

This command lists all nodes currently hosting B<authorized_clients> for
the selected TC application.

=item B<x>

The B<stop> command.  This command stops the B<tcarecv> and B<tcacompile>
daemons of the authority function for the selected TC application on the
local node.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item + 3 6913

Asserts that node 6913 is now member 3 of the collective authority for the
selected application.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

tcaadmin(1), dtka(3)
