=head1 NAME

tccrc - Trusted Collective client configuration commands file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TC client configuration commands are passed to B<tccadmin> either
in a file of text lines or interactively at B<tccadmin>'s command prompt
(:).  Commands are interpreted line-by line, with exactly one command per
line.  The formats and effects of the TC client configuration commands
are described below.

=head1 COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<?>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<h> command.

=item B<#>

Comment line.  Lines beginning with B<#> are not interpreted.

=item B<e> { 1 | 0 }

Echo control.  Setting echo to 1 causes all output printed by tccadmin to be
logged as well as sent to stdout.  Setting echo to 0 disables this behavior.

=item B<v>

Version number.  Prints out the version of ION currently installed.  HINT:
combine withB<e 1> command to log the version number at startup.

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<h> command.

=item B<1> I<number_of_authorities_in_collective> [ I<K> [ I<R> ]]

The B<initialize> command.  Until this command is executed, the client
daemon for the selected TC application is not in operation on the local
ION node and most I<tccadmin> commands will fail.

I<K> is the mandated B<diffusion> for the selected TC application, i.e.,
the number of blocks into which each bulletin of published TC information
is divided for transmission.

I<R> is the mandated B<redundancy> for the selected TC application, i.e.,
the percentage of  blocks issued per bulletin that will be parity blocks
rather than extents of the bulletin itself.

=item B<i>

The B<info> This command will print information about the current state
of the client daemon for the selected TC application on the local node,
i.e., the identities of the TC authority nodes that the client daemon
recognizes.

=item B<s>

The B<start> command.  This command starts the client daemon (B<tcc>)
for the selected TC application.

=item B<m authority> I<authority_array_index> I<node_number>

This command asserts that the Nth member of the collective authority for
the selected TC application, where N is the I<authority_array_index> value,
is the node identified by I<node_number>.

=item B<x>

The B<stop> command.  This command stops the client daemon (B<tcc>) for
the selected TC application.

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<?> command.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item m authority 3 6913

Asserts that node 6913 is member 3 of the collective authority for the
selected application.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

tccadmin(1)
