=head1 NAME

sdrhash - Simple Data Recorder hash table management functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    #include "sdr.h"

    Object  sdr_hash_create        (Sdr sdr, int keyLength,
    					int estNbrOfEntries,
					int meanSearchLength);
    int     sdr_hash_insert 	   (Sdr sdr, Object hash, char *key,
    					Address value, Object *entry);
    int     sdr_hash_delete_entry  (Sdr sdr, Object entry);
    int     sdr_hash_entry_value   (Sdr sdr, Object hash, Object entry);
    int	    sdr_hash_retrieve      (Sdr sdr, Object hash, char *key,
    					Address *value, Object *entry);
    int	    sdr_hash_count         (Sdr sdr, Object hash);
    int	    sdr_hash_revise        (Sdr sdr, Object hash, char *key,
    					Address value);
    int	    sdr_hash_remove        (Sdr sdr, Object hash, char *key,
					Address *value);
    int     sdr_hash_destroy       (Sdr sdr, Object hash);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The SDR hash functions manage hash table objects in an SDR.  

Hash tables associate values with keys.  A value is always in the form of
an SDR Address, nominally the address of some stored object identified by
the associated key, but the actual significance of a value may be anything
that fits into a I<long>.  A key is always an array of from 1 to
255 bytes, which may have any semantics at all.

Keys must be unique; no two distinct entries in an SDR hash table may have
the same key.  Any attempt to insert a duplicate entry in an SDR hash
table will be rejected.

All keys must be of the same length, and that length must be declared at
the time the hash table is created.  Invoking a hash table function with a
key that is shorter than the declared length will have unpredictable results.

An SDR hash table is an array of linked lists.  The location of a given
value in the hash table is automatically determined by computing a "hash"
of the key, dividing the hash by the number of linked lists in the array,
using the remainder as an index to the corresponding linked list, and
then sequentially searching through the list entries until the entry with
the matching key is found.

The number of linked lists in the array is automatically computed at the
time the hash table is created, based on the estimated maximum number of
entries you expect to store in the table and the mean linked list length
(i.e., mean search time) you prefer.  Increasing the maximum number of
entries in the table and decreasing the mean linked list length both tend
to increase the amount of SDR heap space occupied by the hash table.

=over 4

=item Object sdr_hash_create(Sdr sdr, int keyLength, int estNbrOfEntries, int meanSearchLength)

Creates an SDR hash table.  Returns the SDR address of the new hash table
on success, zero on any error.

=item int sdr_hash_insert(Sdr sdr, Object hash, char *key, Address value, Object *entry)

Inserts an entry into the hash table identified by I<hash>.  On success,
places the address of the new hash table entry in I<entry> and returns zero.
Returns -1 on any error.

=item int sdr_hash_delete_entry(Sdr sdr, Object entry)

Deletes the hash table entry identified by I<entry>.  Returns zero on
success, -1 on any error.

=item Address sdr_hash_entry_value(Sdr sdr, Object hash, Object entry)

Returns the value of the hash table entry identified by I<entry>.

=item int sdr_hash_retrieve(Sdr sdr, Object hash, char *key, Address *value, Object *entry)

Searches for the value associated with I<key> in this hash table, storing it in
I<value> if found.  If the entry matching I<key> was found, places the
address of the hash table entry in I<entry> and returns 1.  Returns zero if
no such entry exists, -1 on any other failure.

=item int sdr_hash_count(Sdr sdr, Object hash)

Returns the number of entries in the hash table identified by I<hash>.

=item int sdr_hash_revise(Sdr sdr, Object hash, char *key, Address value)

Searches for the hash table entry matching I<key> in this hash table,
replacing the associated value with I<value> if found.  Returns 1 if the
entry matching I<key> was found, zero if no such entry exists, -1 on
any other failure.

=item int sdr_hash_remove(Sdr sdr, Object hash, char *key, Address *value)

Searches for the hash table entry matching I<key> in this hash table; if the
entry is found, stores its value in I<value>, deletes the entry, and returns
1.  Returns zero if no such entry exists, -1 on any other failure.

=item void sdr_hash_destroy(Sdr sdr, Object hash);

Destroys I<hash>, destroying all entries in all linked lists of the
array and destroying the hash table array structure itself.  DO NOT
use sdr_free() to destroy a hash table, as this would leave the hash
table's content allocated yet unreferenced.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

sdr(3), sdrlist(3), sdrtable(3)
