=head1 NAME

sdrstring - Simple Data Recorder string functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    #include "sdr.h"

    Object sdr_string_create (Sdr sdr, char *from);
    Object sdr_string_dup    (Sdr sdr, Object from);
    int    sdr_string_length (Sdr sdr, Object string);
    int    sdr_string_read   (Sdr sdr, char *into, Object string);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SDR strings are used to record strings of up to 255 ASCII characters
in the heap space of an SDR.  Unlike standard C strings, which are terminated
by a zero byte, SDR strings record the length of the string as
part of the string object.

To store strings longer than 255 characters, use sdr_malloc() and sdr_write()
instead of these functions.

=over 4

=item Object sdr_string_create(Sdr sdr, char *from)

Creates a "self-delimited string" in the heap of the
indicated SDR, allocating the required space and copying the
indicated content.  I<from> must be a standard C
string for which strlen() must not exceed 255; if
it does, or if insufficient SDR space is available, 0
is returned.  Otherwise the address of the newly created SDR
string object is returned.  To destroy, just use sdr_free().

=item Object sdr_string_dup(Sdr sdr, Object from)

Creates a duplicate of the SDR string whose address is
I<from>, allocating the required space and copying the
original string's content.  If insufficient SDR space is
available, 0 is returned.  Otherwise the address of the newly
created copy of the original SDR string object is returned.  To
destroy, use sdr_free().

=item int sdr_string_length(Sdr sdr, Object string)

Returns the length of the indicated self-delimited string (as would
be returned by strlen()), or -1 on any error.

=item int sdr_string_read(Sdr sdr, char *into, Object string)

Retrieves the content of the indicated self-delimited string into
memory as a standard C string (NULL terminated).  Length of I<into>
should normally be SDRSTRING_BUFSZ (i.e., 256) to allow for the largest
possible SDR string (255 characters) plus the terminating NULL.  Returns
length of string (as would be returned by strlen()), or -1 on any error.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

sdr(3), sdrlist(3), sdrtable(3), string(3)
