=head1 NAME

bprc - Bundle Protocol management commands file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Bundle Protocol management commands are passed to B<bpadmin> either in a file of
text lines or interactively at B<bpadmin>'s command prompt (:).  Commands
are interpreted line-by line, with exactly one command per line.  The formats
and effects of the Bundle Protocol management commands are described below.

=head1 GENERAL COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<?>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<h> command.

=item B<#>

Comment line.  Lines beginning with B<#> are not interpreted.

=item B<e> { 1 | 0 }

Echo control.  Setting echo to 1 causes all output printed by bpadmin to be
logged as well as sent to stdout.  Setting echo to 0 disables this behavior.

=item B<v> 

Version number.  Prints out the version of ION currently installed and the
crypto suite BP was compiled with.  HINT: combine with B<e 1> command to log
the version number at startup.

=item B<1>

The B<initialize> command.  Until this command is executed, Bundle Protocol
is not in operation on the local ION node and most I<bpadmin> commands will
fail.

=item B<r> 'I<command_text>'

The B<run> command.  This command will execute I<command_text> as if it
had been typed at a console prompt.  It is used to, for example, run
another administrative program.

=item B<s>

The B<start> command.  This command starts all schemes and all protocols
on the local node.

=item B<m heapmax> I<max_database_heap_per_acquisition>

The B<manage heap for bundle acquisition> command.  This command declares
the maximum number of bytes of SDR heap space that will be occupied by any
single bundle acquisition activity (nominally the acquisition of a single
bundle, but this is at the discretion of the convergence-layer input task).
All data acquired in excess of this limit will be written to a temporary file
pending extraction and dispatching of the acquired bundle or bundles.  Default
is the size of a ZCO file reference object, the minimum SDR heap space
occupancy in the event that all acquisition is into a file.

=item B<x>

The B<stop> command.  This command stops all schemes and all protocols
on the local node.

=item B<w> { 0 | 1 | I<activity_spec> }

The B<BP watch> command.  This command enables and disables production of
a continuous stream of user-selected Bundle Protocol activity indication
characters.  A watch parameter of "1" selects
all BP activity indication characters; "0" de-selects all BP activity
indication characters; any other I<activity_spec> such as "acz~" selects
all activity indication characters in the string, de-selecting all
others.  BP will print each selected activity indication character to
B<stdout> every time a processing event of the associated type occurs:

B<a>	new bundle is queued for forwarding

B<b>	bundle is queued for transmission

B<c>	bundle is popped from its transmission queue

B<m>	custody acceptance signal is received

B<w>	custody of bundle is accepted

B<x>	custody of bundle is refused

B<y>	bundle is accepted upon arrival

B<z>	bundle is queued for delivery to an application

B<~>	bundle is abandoned (discarded) on attempt to forward it

B<!>	bundle is destroyed due to TTL expiration

B<&>	custody refusal signal is received

B<#>	bundle is queued for re-forwarding due to CL protocol failure

B<j>	bundle is placed in "limbo" for possible future re-forwarding

B<k>	bundle is removed from "limbo" and queued for re-forwarding

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<?> command.

=back

=head1 SCHEME COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a scheme> I<scheme_name> 'I<forwarder_command>' 'I<admin_app_command>'

The B<add scheme> command.  This command declares an endpoint naming
"scheme" for use in endpoint IDs, which are structured as URIs:
I<scheme_name>:I<scheme-specific_part>.  I<forwarder_command> will be
executed when the scheme is started on this node, to initiate operation
of a forwarding daemon for this scheme.  I<admin_app_command> will also
be executed when the scheme is started on this node, to initiate
operation of a daemon that opens a custodian endpoint identified within
this scheme so that it can receive and process custody signals and bundle
status reports.

=item B<c scheme> I<scheme_name> 'I<forwarder_command>' 'I<admin_app_command>'

The B<change scheme> command.  This command sets the indicated scheme's 
I<forwarder_command> and I<admin_app_command> to the strings provided
as arguments.

=item B<d scheme> I<scheme_name>

The B<delete scheme> command.  This command deletes the scheme identified
by I<scheme_name>.  The command will fail if any bundles identified in
this scheme are pending forwarding, transmission, or delivery.

=item B<i scheme> I<scheme_name>

This command will print information (number and commands) about
the endpoint naming scheme identified by I<scheme_name>.

=item B<l scheme>

This command lists all declared endpoint naming schemes.

=item B<s scheme> I<scheme_name>

The B<start scheme> command.  This command starts the forwarder and
administrative endpoint tasks for the indicated scheme task on the local node.

=item B<x scheme> I<scheme_name>

The B<stop scheme> command.  This command stops the forwarder and
administrative endpoint tasks for the indicated scheme task on the local node.

=back

=head1 ENDPOINT COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a endpoint> I<endpoint_ID> { q | x } ['I<recv_script>']

The B<add endpoint> command.  This command establishes a DTN endpoint named
I<endpoint_ID> on the local node.  The remaining parameters indicate
what is to be done when bundles destined for this endpoint arrive at a time
when no application has got the endpoint open for bundle reception.  If 'x',
then such bundles are to be discarded silently and immediately.  If 'q',
then such bundles are to be enqueued for later delivery and, if I<recv_script>
is provided, I<recv_script> is to be executed.

=item B<c endpoint> I<endpoint_ID> { q | x } ['I<recv_script>']

The B<change endpoint> command.  This command changes the action that is
to be taken when bundles destined for this endpoint arrive at a time
when no application has got the endpoint open for bundle reception, as
described above.

=item B<d endpoint> I<endpoint_ID>

The B<delete endpoint> command.  This command deletes the endpoint identified
by I<endpoint_ID>.  The command will fail if any bundles are currently
pending delivery to this endpoint.

=item B<i endpoint> I<endpoint_ID>

This command will print information (disposition and script) about
the endpoint identified by I<endpoint_ID>.

=item B<l endpoint>

This command lists all local endpoints, regardless of scheme name.

=back

=head1 PROTOCOL COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a protocol> I<protocol_name> I<payload_bytes_per_frame> I<overhead_bytes_per_frame> [I<nominal_data_rate>]

The B<add protocol> command.  This command establishes access to the named
convergence layer protocol at the local node.  The I<payload_bytes_per_frame>
and I<overhead_bytes_per_frame> arguments are used in calculating the
estimated transmission capacity consumption of each bundle, to aid in
route computation and congestion forecasting.

The optional I<nominal_data_rate> argument overrides the hard-coded default
continuous data rate for the indicated protocol, for purposes of rate
control.  For all CL protocols other than LTP, the protocol's applicable
nominal continuous data rate is the data rate that is always used for
rate control over links served by that protocol; data rates are not
extracted from contact graph information.  This is because only the LTP
induct and outduct throttles can be dynamically adjusted in response
to changes in data rate between the local node and its neighbors,
because (currently) there is no mechanism for mapping neighbor node
number to the duct name for any other CL protocol.  For LTP, duct name
is simply LTP engine number which, by convention, is identical to node
number.  For all other CL protocols, the nominal data rate in each
induct and outduct throttle is initially set to the protocol's configured
nominal data rate and is never subsequently modified.

=item B<d protocol> I<protocol_name>

The B<delete protocol> command.  This command deletes the convergence layer
protocol identified by I<protocol_name>.  The command will fail if any ducts
are still locally declared for this protocol.

=item B<i protocol> I<protocol_name>

This command will print information about the convergence layer protocol
identified by I<protocol_name>.

=item B<l protocol>

This command lists all convergence layer protocols that can currently
be utilized at the local node.

=item B<s protocol> I<protocol_name>

The B<start protocol> command.  This command starts all induct and outduct
tasks for inducts and outducts that have been defined for the indicated
CL protocol on the local node.

=item B<x protocol> I<protocol_name>

The B<stop protocol> command.  This command stops all induct and outduct
tasks for inducts and outducts that have been defined for the indicated
CL protocol on the local node.

=back

=head1 INDUCT COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a induct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name> 'I<CLI_command>'

The B<add induct> command.  This command establishes a "duct" for reception
of bundles via the indicated CL protocol.  The duct's data acquisition
structure is used and populated by the "induct" task whose operation is
initiated by I<CLI_command> at the time the duct is started.

=item B<c induct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name> 'I<CLI_command>'

The B<change induct> command.  This command changes the command that is
used to initiate operation of the induct task for the indicated duct.

=item B<d induct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

The B<delete induct> command.  This command deletes the induct identified
by I<protocol_name> and I<duct_name>.  The command will fail if any bundles
are currently pending acquisition via this induct.

=item B<i induct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

This command will print information (the CLI command) about
the induct identified by I<protocol_name> and I<duct_name>.

=item B<l induct> [I<protocol_name>]

If I<protocol_name> is specified, this command lists all inducts
established locally for the indicated CL protocol.  Otherwise it lists
all locally established inducts, regardless of protocol.

=item B<s induct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

The B<start induct> command.  This command starts the indicated induct 
task as defined for the indicated CL protocol on the local node.

=item B<x induct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

The B<stop induct> command.  This command stops the indicated induct 
task as defined for the indicated CL protocol on the local node.

=back

=head1 OUTDUCT COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a outduct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name> 'I<CLO_command>' [I<max_payload_length>]

The B<add outduct> command.  This command establishes a "duct" for transmission
of bundles via the indicated CL protocol.  The duct's data transmission
structure is serviced by the "outduct" task whose operation is
initiated by I<CLO_command> at the time the duct is started.  A value of
zero for I<max_payload_length> indicates that bundles of any size can be
accommodated; this is the default.

=item B<c outduct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name> 'I<CLO_command>' [I<max_payload_length>]

The B<change outduct> command.  This command sets new values for the indicated
duct's payload size limit and the command that is used to initiate operation of
the outduct task for this duct.

=item B<d outduct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

The B<delete outduct> command.  This command deletes the outduct identified
by I<protocol_name> and I<duct_name>.  The command will fail if any bundles
are currently pending transmission via this outduct.

=item B<i outduct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

This command will print information (the CLO command) about
the outduct identified by I<protocol_name> and I<duct_name>.

=item B<l outduct> [I<protocol_name>]

If I<protocol_name> is specified, this command lists all outducts
established locally for the indicated CL protocol.  Otherwise it lists
all locally established outducts, regardless of protocol.

=item B<s outduct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

The B<start outduct> command.  This command starts the indicated outduct 
task as defined for the indicated CL protocol on the local node.

=item B<b outduct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

The B<block outduct> command.  This command disables transmission of
bundles via the indicated outduct and reforwards all non-critical bundles
currently queued for transmission via this outduct.

=item B<u outduct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

The B<unblock outduct> command.  This command re-enables transmission of
bundles via the indicated outduct and reforwards all bundles in "limbo"
in the hope that the unblocking of this outduct will enable some of them
to be transmitted.

=item B<x outduct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

The B<stop outduct> command.  This command stops the indicated outduct 
task as defined for the indicated CL protocol on the local node.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item a scheme ipn 'ipnfw' 'ipnadminep'

Declares the "ipn" scheme on the local node.

=item a protocol udp 1400 100 16384

Establishes access to the "udp" convergence layer protocol on the local
node, estimating the number of payload bytes per ultimate (lowest-layer)
frame to be 1400 with 100 bytes of total overhead (BP, UDP, IP, AOS) per
lowest-layer frame, and setting the default nominal data rate to be 16384
bytes per second.

=item r 'ipnadmin flyby.ipnrc'

Runs the administrative program I<ipnadmin> from within I<bpadmin>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), ipnadmin(1), dtn2admin(1)
