=head1 NAME

bssrc - IPN scheme configuration commands file adapted for Bundle Streaming Service

=head1 DESCRIPTION

IPN scheme configuration commands are passed to B<bssadmin> either in a file of
text lines or interactively at B<bssadmin>'s command prompt (:).  Commands
are interpreted line-by line, with exactly one command per line.

IPN scheme configuration commands (a) manage a table of destination endpoints
that are known to be associated with Bundle Streaming Service (BSS)
applications, (b) establish BSS-adapted egress plans for direct transmission
to neighboring nodes that are members of endpoints identified in the "ipn"
URI scheme, and (c) establish static default routing rules for forwarding
bundles to specified destination nodes.

A BSS endpoint table B<entry> identifies an IPN endpoint ID -- in which
the node number and/or service number may be the wild-card character '*' --
that is known to be associated with a BSS application.  These table entries
enable B<bssfw> to distinguish BSS bundles from non-BSS traffic and apply
BSS-specific egress planning logic to the former while handling the latter
in exactly the same way as B<ipnfw>.

The egress B<plan> established for a given neighboring node associates three
default egress B<duct expressions> with that node: one for BSS traffic that
must be forwarded as real-time streaming data (using a convergence-layer
protocol that does not perform retransmission), one for BSS traffic that
must be forwarded as playback data (using a reliable convergence-layer
protocol), and one for non-BSS traffic.  These default duct expressions may
be overridden by more narrowly scoped B<planrule>s in specific circumstances:
different egress duct expressions may apply when the source endpoint for
the subject bundle identifies a specific node, a specific service, or both.

Each duct expression is a string of the form
"I<protocol_name>/I<outduct_name>[,I<destination_induct_name>]",
signifying that the bundle is to be queued for transmission via the
indicated convergence layer protocol outduct.  I<destination_induct_name>
must be provided when the indicated outduct is "promiscuous", i.e., not
configured for transmission only to a single neighboring node; this is
protocol-specific.

The circumstances that characterize a specific rule within a general plan
are expressed in a B<qualifier>, a string of the form
"I<source_service_number> I<source_node_number>" where either
I<source_service_number> or I<source_node_number> may be an asterisk
character (*) signifying "all".

Note that egress plans B<must> be established for all neighboring nodes,
regardless of whether or not contact graph routing is used for computing
dynamic routes to distant nodes.  This is by definition: if there isn't
an egress plan to a node, it can't be considered a neighbor.

Static default routes are expressed as B<groups> in the ipn-scheme routing
database.  A group is a range of node numbers identifying a set of nodes
for which defined default routing behavior is established.  Whenever a
bundle is to be forwarded to a node whose number is in the group's node
number range B<and> it has not been possible to compute a dynamic route
to that node from the contact schedules that have been provided to the
local node B<and> that node is not a neighbor to which the bundle can
be directly transmitted, BP will forward the bundle to the B<gateway> node
associated with this group.  The gateway node for any group is identified
by an endpoint ID, which might or might not be an ipn-scheme EID; regardless,
directing a bundle to the gateway for a group causes the bundle to be
re-forwarded to that intermediate destination endpoint.  Multiple groups
may encompass the same node number, in which case the gateway associated
with the most restrictive group (the one with the smallest range) is
always selected.

The formats and effects of the BSS forwarding configuration commands are
described below.

=head1 GENERAL COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<?>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<h> command.

=item B<#>

Comment line.  Lines beginning with B<#> are not interpreted.

=item B<e> { 1 | 0 }

Echo control.  Setting echo to 1 causes all output printed by bssadmin to be
logged as well as sent to stdout.  Setting echo to 0 disables this behavior.

=item B<v> 

Version number.  Prints out the version of ION currently installed.  HINT:
combine with B<e 1> command to log the version number at startup.

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<?> command.

=back

=head1 ENTRY COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a entry> I<service_nbr> I<node_nbr>

The B<add entry> command.  This asserts that all bundles whose destination
endpoint ID matches I<service_nbr> and I<node_nbr> (either or both of which
may be the wild-card character '*') are to be processed as BSS traffic.

=item B<d entry> I<service_nbr> I<node_nbr>

The B<delete entry> command.  This command rescinds a prior BSS assertion
characterized by the exact same I<service_nbr> and I<node_nbr>.

=item B<l entry>

This command lists all entries in the node's table of destination endpoint
IDs that indicate BSS traffic.

=back

=head1 PLAN COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a plan> I<node_nbr> I<non-BSS_duct_expression> I<BSS_non-reliable_duct_expression> I<BSS_reliable_duct_expression> I<custody_expiration_interval>

The B<add plan> command.  This command establishes an egress plan for the
bundles that must be transmitted to the neighboring node identified by
I<node_nbr>.  I<custody_expiration_interval> indicates the number of seconds
the BP agent must wait for custody acceptance after transmitting a bundle on
either BSS duct before automatically re-forwarding the bundle.  A general
plan must be in place for a node before any more specific rules are declared.

=item B<c plan> I<node_nbr> I<non-BSS_duct_expression> I<BSS_non-reliable_duct_expression> I<BSS_reliable_duct_expression> I<custody_expiration_interval>

The B<change plan> command.  This command changes the duct expressions
and/or custody expiration interval for the indicated plan.

=item B<d plan> I<node_nbr>

The B<delete plan> command.  This command deletes the egress plan
for the node identified by I<node_nbr>, including all associated rules.

=item B<i plan> I<node_nbr>

This command will print information (the default duct expressions, custody
expiration interval, and all specific rules) about the egress plan for the
node identified by I<node_nbr>.

=item B<l plan>

This command lists all egress plans established in the BSS database for the
local node.

=back

=head1 PLANRULE COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a planrule> I<node_nbr> I<qualifier> I<non-BSS_duct_expression> I<BSS_non-reliable_duct_expression> I<BSS_reliable_duct_expression>

The B<add planrule> command.  This command establishes a planrule, i.e., a
set of duct expressions that override the default duct expressions of the
egress plan for the node identified by I<node_nbr> in the event that the
source endpoint ID of the subject bundle matches I<qualifier>.

=item B<c planrule> I<node_nbr> I<qualifier> I<non-BSS_duct_expression> I<BSS_non-reliable_duct_expression> I<BSS_reliable_duct_expression>

The B<change planrule> command.  This command changes the duct expressions
for the indicated planrule.

=item B<d planrule> I<node_nbr> I<qualifier>

The B<delete planrule> command.  This command deletes the planrule identified
by I<node_nbr> and I<qualifier>.

=item B<i planrule> I<node_nbr> I<qualifier>

This command will print information (the duct expressions) about the planrule
identified by I<node_nbr> and I<qualifier>.

=item B<l planrule> I<node_nbr>

This command lists all planrules in the plan for the indicated node.

=back

=head1 GROUP COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a group> I<first_node_nbr> I<last_node_nbr> I<gateway_endpoint_ID>

The B<add group> command.  This command establishes a "group" for static 
default routing as described above.

=item B<c group> I<first_node_nbr> I<last_node_nbr> I<gateway_endpoint_ID>

The B<change group> command.  This command changes the gateway node
number for the group identified by I<first_node_nbr> and I<last_node_nbr> .

=item B<d group> I<first_node_nbr> I<last_node_nbr>

The B<delete group> command.  This command deletes the group identified
by I<first_node_nbr> and I<last_node_nbr>.

=item B<i group> I<first_node_nbr> I<last_node_nbr>

This command will print information (the gateway endpoint ID) about the
group identified by I<first_node_nbr> and I<last_node_nbr>.

=item B<l group>

This command lists all groups defined in the BSS database for the local node.

=back

=head1 GROUPRULE COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a grouprule> I<first_node_nbr> I<last_node_nbr> I<qualifier> I<gateway_endpoint_ID>

The B<add grouprule> command.  This command establishes a grouprule, i.e.,
a gateway endpoint ID that overrides the default gateway endpoint ID of the
group identified by I<first_node_nbr> and I<last_node_nbr> in the event
that the source endpoint ID of the subject bundle matches I<qualifier>.

=item B<c grouprule> I<first_node_nbr> I<last_node_nbr> I<qualifier> I<gateway_endpoint_ID>

The B<change grouprule> command.  This command changes the gateway EID
for the indicated grouprule.

=item B<d grouprule> I<first_node_nbr> I<last_node_nbr> I<qualifier>

The B<delete grouprule> command.  This command deletes the grouprule identified
by I<first_node_nbr>, I<last_node_nbr>, and I<qualifier>.

=item B<i grouprule> I<first_node_nbr> I<last_node_nbr> I<qualifier>

This command will print information (the duct expression) about the grouprule
identified by I<node_nbr>, I<last_node_nbr>, and I<qualifier>.

=item B<l grouprule> I<first_node_nbr> I<last_node_nbr>

This command lists all grouprules for the indicated group.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item a plan 18 tcp/saturn.nasa.gov:5011 udp/*,saturn.nasa.gov:5012 tcp/saturn.nasa.gov:5011 3

Declares the egress plan to use for transmission from the local node to
neighboring node 18.  Any bundle for which the computed "next hop" node
is node 18 will be queued for transmission to Internet host saturn.nasa.gov,
using udp if the bundle is real-time BSS traffic and tcp otherwise; for BSS
traffic, custodial retransmission will be initiated after 3 seconds if no
custody acknowledgment is received.

=item a planrule 18 * 9 tcp/saturn.nasa.gov:5011 udp/*,saturn.nasa.gov:5012 tcp/neptune.nasa.gov:5011

Declares an egress plan override that applies to transmission to node 18
of any bundle whose source is node 9, regardless of the service that was
the source of the bundle.  Each such bundle must be queued for transmission
to Internet host neptune.nasa.gov, rather than default host saturn.nasa.gov,
if it is non-real-time BSS traffic.

=item a group 1 999 dtn://stargate

Declares a default route for bundles destined for all nodes whose numbers
are in the range 1 through 999 inclusive: absent any other routing decision,
such bundles are to be forwarded to "dtn://stargate".

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

bssadmin(1)
