=head1 NAME

dtn2rc - "dtn" scheme configuration commands file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

"dtn" scheme configuration commands are passed to B<dtn2admin> either in a
file of text lines or interactively at B<dtn2admin>'s command prompt (:).
Commands are interpreted line-by line, with exactly one command per line.

"dtn" scheme configuration commands mainly establish static routing rules
for forwarding bundles to "dtn"-scheme destination endpoints, identified by
node names and demux names.

Static routes are expressed as B<plan>s in the "dtn"-scheme routing database.
A plan that is established for a given node name associates a default routing
B<directive> with the named node, and that default directive may be
overridden by more narrowly scoped B<rule>s in specific circumstances: a
different directive may apply when the destination endpoint ID specifies
a particular demux name.

Each directive is a string of one of two possible forms:

=over 4

f I<endpoint_ID>

=back

...or...

=over 4

x I<protocol_name>/I<outduct_name>[,I<destination_induct_name>],

=back

The former form signifies that the bundle is to be forwarded to the indicated
endpoint, requiring that it be re-queued for processing by the forwarder
for that endpoint (which might, but need not, be identified by another
"dtn"-scheme endpoint ID).  The latter form signifies that the bundle is
to be queued for transmission via the indicated convergence layer protocol
outduct.  I<destination_induct_name> must be provided when the indicated
outduct is "promiscuous", i.e., not configured for transmission only to
a single neighboring node; this is protocol-specific.

The node names and demux names cited in dtn2rc plans and overriding rules
may be "wild-carded".  That is, when the last character of a node name is
either '*' or '~' (these two wild-card characters are equivalent for this
purpose), the plan or rule applies to all nodes whose names are identical
to the wild-carded node name up to the wild-card character; wild-carded
demux names function in the same way.  For example, a bundle whose
destination EID's node name is "//foghorn" would be routed by plans citing
the following node names: "//foghorn", "//fogh*", "//fog~", "//*".  When
multiple plans are all applicable to the same destination EID, the one citing
the longest (i.e., most narrowly targeted) node name will be applied; when
multiple rules overriding the same plan are all applicable to the same
destination EID, the one citing the longest demux name will be applied.

The formats and effects of the DTN scheme configuration commands are
described below.

=head1 GENERAL COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<?>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<h> command.

=item B<#>

Comment line.  Lines beginning with B<#> are not interpreted.

=item B<e> { 1 | 0 }

Echo control.  Setting echo to 1 causes all output printed by dtn2admin to be
logged as well as sent to stdout.  Setting echo to 0 disables this behavior.

=item B<v> 

Version number.  Prints out the version of ION currently installed.  HINT:
combine with B<e 1> command to log the version number at startup.

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<?> command.

=back

=head1 PLAN COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a plan> I<node_name> I<default_directive>

The B<add plan> command.  This command establishes a static route for
the bundles destined for the node identified by I<node_name>.  A general
plan must be in place for a node before any more specific routing rules
are declared.

=item B<d plan> I<node_name>

The B<delete plan> command.  This command deletes the static route for
the node identified by I<node_name>, including all associated rules.

=item B<i plan> I<node_name>

This command will print information (the default directive and all
specific rules) about the static route for the node identified by I<node_name>.

=item B<l plan>

This command lists all static routes established in the DTN database for
the local node.

=back

=head1 RULE COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a rule> I<node_name> I<demux_name> I<directive>

The B<add rule> command.  This command establishes a rule, i.e., a
directive that overrides the default directive of the plan for the node
identified by I<node_name> in the event that the demux name of the subject
bundle's destination endpoint ID matches I<demux_name>.

=item B<c rule> I<node_name> I<demux_name> I<directive>

The B<change rule> command.  This command changes the directive for the
indicated rule.

=item B<d rule> I<node_name> I<demux_name>

The B<delete rule> command.  This command deletes the rule identified
by I<node_name> and I<demux_name>.

=item B<i rule> I<node_name> I<demux_name>

This command will print information (the directive) about the rule
identified by I<node_name> and I<demux_name>.

=item B<l rule> I<node_name>

This command lists all rules in the plan for the indicated node.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item a plan //bbn2 f ipn:8.41

Declares a static route from the local node to node "//bbn2".  By default, any
bundle destined for any endpoint whose node name is "//bbn2" will be forwarded
to endpoint "ipn:8.41".

=item a plan //mitre1 x ltp/6

Declares a static route from the local node to node "//mitre1".  By default,
any bundle destined for any endpoint whose node name is "mitre1" will
be queued for transmission on LTP outduct 6.

=item a rule //mitre1 fwd x ltp/18

Declares an overriding static routing rule for any bundle destined for node
"//mitre1" whose destination demux name is "fwd".  Each such bundle must be
queued for transmission on LTP outduct 18 rather than the default (LTP
outduct 6).

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

dtn2admin(1)
