=head1 NAME

lgfile - ION Load/Go source file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The ION Load/Go system enables the execution of ION administrative programs
at remote nodes:

=over 4

The B<lgsend> program reads a Load/Go source file from a local file system,
encapsulates the text of that source file in a bundle, and sends the bundle
to a designated DTN endpoint on the remote node.

An B<lgagent> task running on the remote node, which has opened that DTN
endpoint for bundle reception, receives the extracted payload of the bundle
-- the text of the Load/Go source file -- and processes it.

=back

Load/Go source file content is limited to newline-terminated lines of ASCII
characters.  More specifically, the text of any Load/Go source file is a
sequence of I<line sets> of two types: I<file capsules> and I<directives>.
Any Load/Go source file may contain any number of file capsules and any
number of directives, freely intermingled in any order, but the typical
structure of a Load/Go source file is simply a single file capsule
followed by a single directive.

Each I<file capsule> is structured as a single start-of-capsule line, followed
by zero or more capsule text lines, followed by a single end-of-capsule
line.  Each start-of-capsule line is of this form:

=over 4

[I<file_name>

=back

Each capsule text line can be any line of ASCII text that does not begin
with an opening ([) or closing (]) bracket character.

A text line that begins with a closing bracket character (]) is interpreted
as an end-of-capsule line.

A I<directive> is any line of text that is not one of the lines of a file
capsule and that is of this form:

=over 4

!I<directive_text>

=back

When B<lgagent> identifies a file capsule, it copies all of the capsule's
text lines to a new file named I<file_name> that it creates in the current
working directory.  When B<lgagent> identifies a directive, it executes
the directive by passing I<directive_text> to the pseudoshell() function
(see platform(3)).  B<lgagent> processes the line sets of a Load/Go source
file in the order in which they appear in the file, so the I<directive_text>
of a directive may reference a file that was created as the result of
processing a prior file capsule line set in the same source file.

Note that lgfile directives are passed to pseudoshell(), which on a VxWorks
platform will always spawn a new task; the first argument in I<directive_text>
must be a symbol that VxWorks can resolve to a function, not a shell
command.  Also note that the arguments in I<directive_text> will be actual
task arguments, not shell command-line arguments, so they should never be
enclosed in double-quote characters (").  However, any argument that
contains embedded whitespace must be enclosed in single-quote characters (')
so that pseudoshell() can parse it correctly.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Presenting the following lines of source file text to B<lgsend>:

=over 4

[cmd33.bprc

x protocol ltp

]

!bpadmin cmd33.bprc

=back

should cause the receiving node to halt the operation of the LTP
convergence-layer protocol.

=head1 SEE ALSO

lgsend(1), lgagent(1), platform(3)
