=head1 NAME

dtka - Delay-Tolerant Key Administration (DTKA) daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dtka>

B<dtka> is a delay-tolerant public key infrastructure (PKI) system, built
on the Trusted Collective (TC) application framework.  Each DTKA daemon
generates public/private key pairs and uses the TC framework to distribute
public keys securely and to receive the public keys generated and distributed
by other DTKA daemons.  For an overview of TC, see the tc(3) manual page.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The DTKA system provides a trustworthy mechanism for delay-tolerant
distribution of public keys, enabling ION's BP and LTP implementations
to utilize asymmetric cryptography to ensure the integrity and/or
confidentiality of data exchange as necessary.  (Discussion of asymmetric
cryptography is beyond the scope of this manual page.)

A central principle of DTKA is that keys have B<effective times> which
condition their applicability.  For example, the public key that must
be used to encrypt a bundle payload destined for a given node is the
public key (asserted by that node) whose associated effective time is
greatest among all of that node's public keys whose associated effective
times are less than or equal to the creation time of the bundle.  Effective
times enable keys to be distributed far in advance of the times at which
they will be used, which is what makes DTKA delay-tolerant: when the time
arrives at which a node needs a given key, the key is already in place.

The B<dtka> daemon is responsible for periodically generating, on behalf
of a given DTN node, public/private key pairs that will be effective at
times in the future.

The first public key generated by a given DTN node's B<dtka> daemon is
distributed by means of an application-specific DTKA initialization
procedure.  The procedure may be an out-of-band mechanism by which
the initializing node's public key is generated and submitted to
the DTKA B<authority> while the user node is under the physical
control of the DTKA authority's administrator.  Alternatively, the
initializing node's public key may be submitted to the DTKA authority
by some other DTN node whose B<dtka> daemon is known to the DTKA
authority and is trusted, in which case that node utilizes the TC
framework on behalf of the initializing node.

Each subsequently generated public key is signed in the node's applicable
private key and is submitted directly to the DTKA authority by means of
the TC framework.

Public key revocations, generated by the DTKA authority's administrator,
are submitted in the same way as assertions of new public keys.

B<NOTE> that dtka utilizes functions provided by cryptography software
that is not distributed with ION.  To indicate that this supporting software
has been installed, set the compiler flag -DCRYPTO_SOFTWARE_INSTALLED when
compiling this program.  Absent that flag setting at compile time, the dtka
daemon's generateKeyPair() function does nothing.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<dtka> terminated, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.

=item "1"

B<dtka> was unable to attach to TC client functionality, possibly because
B<tcc> is not running.

=back

=head1 FILES

The B<dtkaadmin> utility is used to configure the operation of the dtka daemon;
see the dtkarc(5) man page for details.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

dtkaadmin(1), dtkarc(5), tc(3), tcc(1), tccadmin(1), tccrc(5)
