=head1 NAME

knclock - DTKA user daemon task for producing new public/private key pairs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<knclock>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<knclock> is a background "daemon" task that periodically generates new
public/private key pairs, records them locally, and multicasts the public
keys to the DTKA distributed key authority.  It is spawned automatically
by B<knadmin> in response to the 's' command that starts operation of the
DTKA user function, and it is terminated by B<knadmin> in response to an 'x'
(STOP) command.

B<NOTE> that knclock utilizes functions provided by cryptography software
that is not distributed with ION.  To indicate that this supporting software
has been installed, set the compiler flag -DCRYPTO_SOFTWARE_INSTALLED when
compiling this program.  Absent that flag setting at compile time, knclock's
generateKeyPair() function does nothing.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<knclock> terminated, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If this
termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<knadmin> to restart B<knclock>.

=item "1"

B<knclock> was unable to attach to DTKA operations, probably because
B<knadmin> has not yet been run.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item knclock can't attach to DTKA.

B<knadmin> has not yet initialized the DTKA user function.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

knadmin(1), dtka(3), knoderc(5)
