=head1 NAME

tcaadmin - Trusted Collective (TC) authority administration interface

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<tcaadmin> I<blocks_group_number> [ I<commands_filename> ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<tcaadmin> configures and manages the Trusted Collective authority
databases for TC applications on the local ION node, enabling the node
to function as a member of one or more collective authorities.

The first command-line argument to B<tcaadmin> is I<blocksGroupNumber>,
which identifies the specific TC application to which all commands
submitted to this instance of B<tcaadmin> will apply.  A TC
application is uniquely identified by the group number of the Bundle
Protocol multicast group comprising all nodes hosting TC clients that
subscribe to TC "blocks" published for that application.

B<tcaadmin> configures and manages a TC authority database in response to
authority configuration commands found in I<commands_filename>, if provided;
if not, B<tcaadmin> prints a simple prompt (:) so that the user may type
commands directly into standard input.

The format of commands for I<commands_filename> can be queried from
B<tcaadmin> by entering the command 'h' or '?' at the prompt.  The
commands are documented in tcarc(5).

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

Successful completion of TC authority administration.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item tcaadmin 203

Enter interactive TC authority administration command entry mode for
application 203.

=item tcaadmin 203 host1.tcarc

Apply the application-203 configuration commands in I<host1.tcarc>, then
terminate immediately.

=back

=head1 FILES

Status and diagnostic messages from B<tcaadmin> and from other software that
utilizes the ION node are nominally written to a log file in the current
working directory within which B<tcaadmin> was run.  The log file is
typically named B<ion.log>.

See also tcarc(5).

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

B<Note>: all ION administration utilities expect source file input to be
lines of ASCII text that are NL-delimited.  If you edit the tcarc file on
a Windows machine, be sure to B<use dos2unix to convert it to Unix text format>
before presenting it to B<tcaadmin>.  Otherwise B<tcaadmin> will detect
syntax errors and will not function satisfactorily.

The following diagnostics may be issued to the log file:

=over 4

=item Can't open command file...

The I<commands_filename> specified in the command line doesn't exist.

=back

Various errors that don't cause B<tcaadmin> to fail but are noted in the
log file may be caused by improperly formatted commands given at the prompt
or in the I<commands_filename>.  Please see tcarc(5) for details.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

tcacompile(1), tcapublish(1), tcarecv(1), tcarc(5)
