=head1 NAME

tcaboot - Trusted Collective (TC) authority initialization utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<tcaboot> I<multicast_group_number_for_TC_bulletins> I<multicast_group_number_for_TC_records> I<number_of_authorities_in_collective> I<K> I<R> [ I<delay> ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<tcaboot> writes a TC authority administration command file that initializes
a TC authority database.  The file, named "boot.tcarc", is written to the
current working directory.  It simply contains two authority configuration
commands that initialize the TC authority database for the TC application
and then set the initial bulletin compilation time for this authority to
the current ctime plus I<delay> seconds.  If omitted, I<delay> defaults
to 5.  The other command-line arguments for B<tcaboot> are discussed in
the descriptions of application initialization commands for B<tcaadmin>;
see the tcarc(5) manual page for details.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

Successful generation of TC authority initialization file.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item tcaboot 210 209 6 50 .2

Writes a boot.tcarc file that initializes the local node's TC authority
database as indicated and sets the next bulletin compilation time to the
current time plus 5 seconds.

=item tcaboot 210 209 6 50 .2 90

Writes a boot.tcarc file that initializes the local node's TC authority
database as indicated and sets the next bulletin compilation time to the
current time plus 90 seconds.

=back

=head1 FILES

No files apply.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the log file:

=over 4

=item Can't open cmd file

B<tcaboot> is unable to create a file named boot.tcarc for the indicated reason,
a system error.

=item Can't write to cmd file

B<tcaboot> is unable to write to boot.tcarc for the indicated reason,
a system error.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

tcaadmin(1), tcarc(5)
