=head1 NAME

ionconfig - ION node configuration parameters file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ION node configuration parameters are passed to B<ionadmin> in a file of
parameter name/value pairs:

=over 4

I<parameter_name> I<parameter_value>

=back

Any line of the file that begins with a '#' character is considered a
comment and is ignored.

B<ionadmin> supplies default values for any parameters for which no value
is provided in the node configuration parameters file.

The applicable parameters are as follows:

=over 4

=item sdrName

This is the character string by which this ION node's SDR database will be
identified.  (Note that the SDR database infrastructure enables multiple
databases to be constructed on a single host computer.)  The default value is
"ion".

=item sdrWmSize

This is the size of the block of dynamic memory that will be reserved as
private working memory for the SDR system itself.  A block of system memory
of this size will be allocated (e.g., by malloc()) at the time the SDR system
is initialized on the host computer.  The default value is 1000000 (1 million
bytes).

=item configFlags

This is the bitwise "OR" (i.e., the sum) of the flag values that characterize
the SDR database to use for this ION node.  The default value is 13 (that is,
SDR_IN_DRAM | SDR_REVERSIBLE | SDR_BOUNDED).  The SDR configuration flags are
documented in detail in sdr(3).  To recap:

=over 4

=item SDR_IN_DRAM (1)

The SDR is implemented in a region of shared memory.  [Possibly with
write-through to a file, for fault tolerance.]

=item SDR_IN_FILE (2)

The SDR is implemented as a file.  [Possibly cached in a region of shared
memory, for faster data retrieval.]

=item SDR_REVERSIBLE (4)

Transactions in the SDR are written ahead to a log, making them reversible.

=item SDR_BOUNDED (8)

SDR heap updates are not allowed to cross object boundaries.

=back

=item heapKey

This is the shared-memory key by which the pre-allocated block of shared
dynamic memory to be used as heap space for this SDR can be located, if
applicable.  The default value is -1, i.e., not specified and not applicable.

=item pathName

This is the fully qualified path name of the directory in which are located
(a) the file to be used as heap space for this SDR (which will be created, if
it doesn't already exist), in the event that the SDR is to be implemented in
a file, and (b) the file to be used to log the database updates of each
SDR transaction, in the event that transactions in this SDR are to be
reversible.  The default value is B</tmp>.

=item heapWords

This is the number of words (of 32 bits each on a 32-bit machine, 64 bits
each on a 64-bit machine) of nominally non-volatile storage to use for ION's
SDR database.  If the SDR is to be implemented in shared memory and no
I<heapKey> is specified, a block of shared memory of this size will be
allocated (e.g., by malloc()) at the time the node is created.  If the
SDR is to be implemented in a file and no file named B<ion.sdr> exists in
the directory identified by I<pathName>, then a file of this name and size
will be created in this directory and initialized to all binary zeroes.  The
default value is 250000 words (1 million bytes on a 32-bit computer).

=item logSize

This is the number of bytes of shared memory to use for ION's SDR transaction
log.  If zero (the default), the transaction log is written to a file rather
than to memory.  If the log is to be implemented in shared memory and no
I<logKey> is specified, a block of shared memory of this size will be allocated
(e.g., by malloc()) at the time the node is created.

=item logKey

This is the shared-memory key by which the pre-allocated block of shared
dynamic memory to be used for the transaction log for this SDR can be located,
if applicable.  The default value is -1, i.e., not specified and not applicable.

=item wmKey

This is the shared-memory key by which this ION node's working memory will
be identified.  The default value is 65281.

=item wmAddress

This is the address of the block of dynamic memory -- volatile storage, which
is not expected to persist across a system reboot -- to use for this ION
node's working memory.  If zero, the working memory block will be allocated
from system memory (e.g., by malloc()) at the time the local ION node is
created.  The default value is zero.

=item wmSize

This is the size of the block of dynamic memory that will be used for this
ION node's working memory.  If I<wmAddress> is zero, a block of system memory
of this size will be allocated (e.g., by malloc()) at the time the node is
created.  The default value is 5000000 (5 million bytes).

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

configFlags 1

heapWords 2500000

heapKey -1

pathName /usr/ion

wmSize 5000000

wmAddress 0

=head1 SEE ALSO

ionadmin(1)
