=head1 NAME

bssrecv - Bundle Streaming Service reception test program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bssrecv>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bssrecv> uses BSS to acquire streaming data from B<bssStreamingApp>.

B<bssrecv> is a menu-driven interactive test program, run from the operating
system shell prompt.  The program enables the user to begin and end a session
of BSS data acquisition from B<bssStreamingApp>, displaying the data as it
arrives in real time; to replay data acquired during the current session;
and to replay data acquired during a prior session.

The user must provide values for three parameters in order to initiate the
acquisition or replay of data from B<bssStreamingApp>:

=over 4

=item BSS database name

All data acquired by the BSS session thread will be written to a BSS "database"
comprising three files: table, list, and data.  The name of the database
is the root name that is common to the three files, e.g., I<db3>.tbl,
I<db3>.lst, I<db3>.dat would be the three files making up the I<db3> BSS
database.

=item path name

All three files of the selected BSS database must reside in the same
directory of the file system; the path name of that directory is required.

=item endpoint ID

In order to acquire streaming data issued by B<bssStreamingApp>, the B<bssrecv>
session thread must open the BP endpoint to which that data is directed.  For
this purpose, the ID of that endpoint is needed.

=back

B<bssrecv> offers the following menu options:

=over 4

=item 1. Open BSS Receiver in playback mode

B<bssrecv> prompts the user for the three parameter values noted above, then
opens the indicated BSS database for replay of the data in that database.

=item 2. Start BSS receiving thread

B<bssrecv> prompts the user for the three parameter values noted above, then
starts a background session thread to acquire data into the indicated database.
Each bundle that is acquired is passed to a display function that prints a
single line consisting of N consecutive '*' characters, where N is computed
as the data number at the start of the bundle's payload data, modulo 150.
Note that the database is B<not> open for replay at this time.

=item 3. Run BSS receiver thread

B<bssrecv> prompts the user for the three parameter values noted above, then
starts a background session thread to acquire data into the indicated database
(displaying the data as described for option 2 above) and also opens the
database for replay.

=item 4. Close current playback session

B<bssrecv> closes the indicated BSS database, terminating replay access.

=item 5. Stop BSS receiving thread

B<bssrecv> terminates the current background session thread.  Replay access
to the BSS database, if currently open, is B<not> terminated.

=item 6. Stop BSS Receiver

B<bssrecv> terminates the current background session thread.  Replay access
to the BSS database, if currently open, is also terminated.

=item 7. Replay session

B<bssrecv> prompts the user for the start and end times bounding the
reception interval that is to be replayed, then displays all data within that
interval in both forward and reverse time order.  The display function
performed for this purpose is the same one that is exercised during
real-time acquisition of streaming data.

=item 8. Exit

B<bssrecv> terminates.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bssrecv> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bssStreamingApp(1), bss(3)
