=head1 NAME

file2sm - shared-memory linked list data ingestion test program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<file2sm> I<fileName>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<file2sm> stress-tests shared-memory linked list data ingestion by repeatedly
writing all text lines of the file named I<fileName> to a shared-memory linked
list that is the root object of a PSM partition named "file2sm".

After writing each line to the linked list, B<file2sm> gives a semaphore to
indicate that the list is now non-empty.  This is mainly for the benefit of
the complementary test program sm2file(1).

The operation of B<file2sm> is cyclical.  After copying all text lines of
the source file to the linked list, B<file2sm> appends an EOF line to
the linked list, containing the text "*** End of the file ***", and prints a
brief performance report:

	Processing I<lineCount> lines per second.

Then it reopens the source file and starts appending the file's text lines
to the linked list again.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<file2sm> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Can't attach to shared memory

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item Can't manage shared memory.

PSM error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item Can't create shared memory list.

smlist error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item Can't create semaphore.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item Can't open input file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item Can't reopen input file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item Can't read from input file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item Ran out of memory.

Nominal behavior.  B<sm2file> is not extracting data from the linked list
quickly enough to prevent it from growing to consume all memory allocated
to the test partition.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

sm2file(1), smlist(3), psm(3)
