=head1 NAME

ionadmin - ION node administration interface

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ionadmin> [ I<commands_filename> | . ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ionadmin> configures, starts, manages, and stops the ION node on the local
computer.

It configures the node and sets (and reports on) global operational
settings for the DTN protocol stack on the local computer in response
to ION configuration commands found in I<commands_filename>, if provided;
if not, B<ionadmin> prints a simple prompt (:) so that the user may type
commands directly into standard input.  If I<commands_filename> is a
period (.), the effect is the same as if a command file containing
the single command 'x' were passed to B<ionadmin> -- that is, the ION
node's I<rfxclock> task is stopped.

The format of commands for I<commands_filename> can be queried from B<ionadmin>
by entering the command 'h' or '?' at the prompt.  The commands are documented
in ionrc(5).

Note that I<ionadmin> always computes a congestion forecast immediately
before exiting.  The result of this forecast -- maximum projected occupancy
of the DTN protocol traffic allocation in ION's SDR database -- is retained
for application flow control purposes: if maximum projected occupancy is the
entire protocol traffic allocation, then a message to this effect is logged
and no new bundle origination by any application will be accepted until
a subsequent forecast that predicts no congestion is computed.  (Congestion
forecasts are constrained by I<horizon> times, which can be established by
commands issued to I<ionadmin>.  One way to re-enable data origination
temporarily while long-term traffic imbalances are being addressed is to
declare a congestion forecast horizon in the near future, before congestion
would occur if no adjustments were made.)

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

Successful completion of ION node administration.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item ionadmin

Enter interactive ION configuration command entry mode.

=item ionadmin host1.ion

Execute all configuration commands in I<host1.ion>, then terminate immediately.

=back

=head1 FILES

Status and diagnostic messages from B<ionadmin> and from other software that
utilizes the ION node are nominally written to a log file in the current
working directory within which B<ionadmin> was run.  The log file is typically
named B<ion.log>.

See also ionconfig(5) and ionrc(5).

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

Environment variables ION_NODE_LIST_DIR and ION_NODE_WDNAME can be used to
enable the operation of multiple ION nodes on a single workstation computer.
See section 2.1.3 of the ION Design and Operations Guide for details.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

B<Note>: all ION administration utilities expect source file input to be
lines of ASCII text that are NL-delimited.  If you edit the ionrc file on
a Windows machine, be sure to B<use dos2unix to convert it to Unix text format>
before presenting it to B<ionadmin>.  Otherwise B<ionadmin> will detect syntax
errors and will not function satisfactorily.

The following diagnostics may be issued to the log file:

=over 4

=item Can't open command file...

The I<commands_filename> specified in the command line doesn't exist.

=item ionadmin SDR definition failed.

A node initialization command was executed, but an SDR database already
exists for the indicated node.  It is likely that an ION node is already
running on this computer or that destruction of a previously started the
previous ION node was incomplete.  For most ION installations, incomplete
node destruction can be repaired by (a) killing all ION processes that
are still running and then (b) using B<ipcrm> to remove all SVr4 IPC
objects owned by ION.

=item ionadmin can't get SDR parms.

A node initialization command was executed, but the I<ion_config_filename>
passed to that command contains improperly formatted commands.  Please see
ionconfig(5) for further details.

=back

Various errors that don't cause B<ionadmin> to fail but are noted in the
log file may be caused by improperly formatted commands given at the prompt
or in the I<commands_filename>.  Please see ionrc(5) for details.

=head1 BUGS

If the I<ion_config_filename> parameter passed to a node initialization
command refers to a nonexistent filename, then B<ionadmin> uses default
values are used rather than reporting an error in the command line argument.

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

ionrc(5), ionconfig(5)
