=head1 NAME

ionsecadmin - ION global security database management interface

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ionsecadmin> [ I<commands_filename> ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ionsecadmin> configures and manages the ION security database
on the local computer.

It configures and manages the ION security database on the local
computer in response to ION configuration commands found in
I<commands_filename>, if provided; if not, B<ionsecadmin> prints
a simple prompt (:) so that the user may type commands directly
into standard input.

The format of commands for I<commands_filename> can be queried from
B<ionsecadmin> by entering the command 'h' or '?' at the prompt.  The
commands are documented in ionsecrc(5).

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

Successful completion of ION security database administration.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item ionsecadmin

Enter interactive ION security policy administration command entry mode.

=item ionsecadmin host1.ionsecrc

Execute all configuration commands in I<host1.ionsecrc>, then terminate
immediately.

=back

=head1 FILES

Status and diagnostic messages from B<ionsecadmin> and from other software that
utilizes the ION node are nominally written to a log file in the current
working directory within which B<ionsecadmin> was run.  The log file is
typically named B<ion.log>.

See also ionsecrc(5).

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

B<Note>: all ION administration utilities expect source file input to be
lines of ASCII text that are NL-delimited.  If you edit the ionrc file on
a Windows machine, be sure to B<use dos2unix to convert it to Unix text format>
before presenting it to B<ionsecadmin>.  Otherwise B<ionsecadmin> will detect
syntax errors and will not function satisfactorily.

The following diagnostics may be issued to the log file:

=over 4

=item Can't open command file...

The I<commands_filename> specified in the command line doesn't exist.

=back

Various errors that don't cause B<ionsecadmin> to fail but are noted in the
log file may be caused by improperly formatted commands given at the prompt
or in the I<commands_filename>.  Please see ionsecrc(5) for details.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

ionsecrc(5)
