=head1 NAME

ionunlock - utility for unlocking a locked ION node

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ionunlock> [I<sdr_name>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<ionunlock> program is designed to be run when some ION thread has
terminated while it is the owner of the node's system mutex, i.e., while
in the midst of an SDR transaction.  IT MUST NEVER BE RUN AT ANY OTHER TIME
as it will totally corrupt a node that is not locked up. The program simply
declares itself to be the owner of the incomplete transaction and cancels it,
enabling the rest of the system to resume operations.

If omitted, I<sdr_name> defaults to "ion".

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<ionunlock> has terminated successfully.

=item "1"

B<ionunlock> has terminated unsuccessfully.  See diagnostic messages in the
B<ion.log> log file for details.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item Can't initialize the SDR system.

Probable operations error: ION appears not to be initialized, in which case
there is no point in running B<ionunlock>.

=item Can't start using SDR.

ION system error.  See earlier diagnostic messages posted to B<ion.log>
for details.  In this event it is unlikely that B<ionunlock> can be run
successfully, and it is also unlikely that it would have any effect if it
did run successfully.

=item ionunlock unnecessary; exiting.

Either the indicated SDR is not initialized or it is not currently stuck in
a transaction.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

ionxnowner(1), sdrmend(1), sdr(3)
