=head1 NAME

owlttb - one-way light time transmission delay simulator

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<owlttb> I<own_uplink_port#> I<own_downlink_port#> I<dest_uplink_IP_address> I<dest_uplink_port#> I<dest_downlink_IP_address> I<dest_downlink_port#> I<owlt_sec.> [-v]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<owlttb> delays delivery of data between an NTTI and a NetAcquire box (or
two, one for uplink and one for downlink) by a specified length of time,
simulating the signal propagation delay imposed by distance between the nodes.

Its operation is configured by the command-line parameters, except that the
delay interval itself may be changed while the program is running.  B<owlttb>
offers a command prompt (:), and when a new value of one-way light time is
entered at this prompt the new delay interval takes effect immediately.

=over 4

=item I<own_uplink_port#> identifies the port on B<owlttb> accepts the NTTI's TCP connection for uplink traffic (i.e., data destined for the NetAcquire box).

=item I<own_downlink_port#> identifies the port on B<owlttb> accepts the NTTI's TCP connection for downlink traffic (i.e., data issued by the NetAcquire box).

=item I<dest_uplink_IP_address> is the IP address (a dotted string) identifying the NetAcquire box to which B<owlttb> will transmit uplink traffic.

=item I<dest_uplink_port#> identifies the TCP port to which B<owlttb> will connect in order to transmit uplink traffic to NetAcquire.

=item I<dest_downlink_IP_address> is the IP address (a dotted string) identifying the NetAcquire box from which B<owlttb> will receive downlink traffic.

=item I<dest_downlink_port#> identifies the TCP port to which B<owlttb> will connect in order to receive downlink traffic from NetAcquire.

=item I<owlt> specifies the number of seconds to wait before forwarding each received segment of TCP traffic.

=back

The optional B<-v> ("verbose") parameter causes B<owlttb> to print a
message whenever it receives, sends, or discards (due to absence of a
connected downlink client) a segment of TCP traffic.

B<owlttb> is designed to run indefinitely.  To terminate the program, just
use control-C to kill it or enter "q" at the prompt.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"
Nominal termination.

=item "1"
Termination due to an error condition, as noted in printed messages.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Here is a sample owlttb command:

=over 4

=item owlttb 2901 2902 137.7.8.19 10001 137.7.8.19 10002 75

=back

This command indicates that B<owlttb> will accept an uplink traffic connection
on port 2901, forwarding the received uplink traffic to port 10001 on the
NetAcquire box at 137.7.8.19, and it will accept a downlink traffic connection
on port 2902, delivering over that connection all downlink traffic that it
receives from connecting to port 10002 on the NetAcquire box at 137.7.8.19.
75 seconds of delay (simulating a distance of 75 light seconds) will be
imposed on this transmission activity.

=head1 FILES

Not applicable.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be printed to stdout:

=over 4

=item owlttb can't spawn uplink thread

The program terminates.

=item owlttb can't spawn uplink sender thread

The program terminates.

=item owlttb can't spawn downlink thread

The program terminates.

=item owlttb can't spawn downlink receiver thread

The program terminates.

=item owlttb can't spawn downlink sender thread

The program terminates.

=item owlttb fgets failed

The program terminates.

=item owlttb out of memory.

The program terminates.

=item owlttb lost uplink client.

This is an informational message.  The NTTI may reconnect at any time.

=item owlttb lost downlink client

This is an informational message.  The NTTI may reconnect at any time.

=item owlttb can't open TCP socket to NetAcquire

The program terminates.

=item owlttb can't connect TCP socket to NetAcquire

The program terminates.

=item owlttb write() error on socket

The program terminates if it was writing to NetAcquire; otherwise it
simply recognizes that the client NTTI has disconnected.

=item owlttb read() error on socket

The program terminates.

=item owlttb can't open uplink dialup socket

The program terminates.

=item owlttb can't initialize uplink dialup socket

The program terminates.

=item owlttb can't open downlink dialup socket

The program terminates.

=item owlttb can't initialize downlink dialup socket

The program terminates.

=item owlttb accept() failed

The program terminates.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>
