=head1 NAME

psmshell - PSM memory management test shell

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<psmshell> I<partition_size>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<psmshell> allocates a region of I<partition_size> bytes of system memory,
places it under PSM management, and offers the user an interactive "shell"
for testing various PSM management functions.

B<psmshell> prints a prompt string (": ") to stdout, accepts a command from 
stdin, executes the command (possibly printing a diagnostic message), 
then prints another prompt string and so on.

The locations of objects allocated from the PSM-managed region of memory
are referred to as "cells" in psmshell operations.  That is, when an object
is to be allocated, a cell number in the range 0-99 must be specified as
the notional "handle" for that object, for use in future commands.
	
The following commands are supported:

=over 4

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  Causes B<psmshell> to print a summary of available
commands.  Same effect as the B<?> command.

=item B<?>

Another B<help> command.  Causes B<psmshell> to print a summary of available
commands.  Same effect as the B<h> command.

=item B<m> I<cell_nbr> I<size>

The B<malloc> command.  Allocates a large-pool object of the indicated size and
associates that object with I<cell_nbr>.

=item B<z> I<cell_nbr> I<size>

The B<zalloc> command.  Allocates a small-pool object of the indicated size and
associates that object with I<cell_nbr>.

=item B<p> I<cell_nbr>

The B<print> command.  Prints the address (i.e., the offset within the
managed block of memory) of the object associated with I<cell_nbr>.

=item B<f> I<cell_nbr>

The B<free> command.  Frees the object associated with I<cell_nbr>, returning
the space formerly occupied by that object to the appropriate free block list.

=item B<u>

The B<usage> command.  Prints a partition usage report, as per psm_report(3).

=item B<q>

The B<quit> command.  Frees the allocated system memory in the managed
block and terminates B<psmshell>.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<psmshell> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item IPC initialization failed.

ION system error.  Investigate, correct problem, and try again.

=item psmshell: can't allocate space; quitting.

Insufficient available system memory for selected partition size.

=item psmshell: can't allocate test variables; quitting.

Insufficient available system memory for selected partition size.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

psm(3)
