=head1 NAME

sdr2file - SDR data extraction test program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<sdr2file> I<configFlags>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<sdr2file> stress-tests SDR data extraction by retrieving and deleting
all text file lines inserted into a test SDR data store named
"testsdrI<configFlags>" by the complementary test program file2sdr(1).

The operation of B<sdr2file> echoes the cyclical operation of B<file2sdr>:
each linked list created by B<file2sdr> is used to create in the current
working directory a copy of B<file2sdr>'s original source text file.
The name of each file written by B<sdr2file> is file_copy_I<cycleNbr>,
where I<cycleNbr> identifies the linked list from which the file's text
lines were obtained.

B<sdr2file> may catch up with the data ingestion activity of B<file2sdr>,
in which case it blocks (taking the B<file2sdr> test semaphore) until
the linked list it is currently draining is no longer empty.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<sdr2file> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Can't use sdr.

ION system error.  Check for diagnostics in the ION log file I<ion.log>.

=item Can't create semaphore.

ION system error.  Check for diagnostics in the ION log file I<ion.log>.

=item SDR transaction failed.

ION system error.  Check for diagnostics in the ION log file I<ion.log>.

=item Can't open output file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item can't write to output file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

file2sdr(1), sdr(3)
