=head1 NAME

sdrmend - SDR corruption repair utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<sdrmend> I<sdr_name> I<config_flags> I<heap_words> I<heap_key> I<path_name> [I<restartCmd> I<restartLatency>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<sdrmend> program simply invokes the sdr_reload_profile() function (see
sdr(3)) to effect necessary repairs in a potentially corrupt SDR, e.g., due to
the demise of a program that had an SDR transaction in progress at the moment
it crashed.

Note that B<sdrmend> need not be run to repair ION's data store in the event
of a hardware reboot: restarting ION will automatically reload the data
store's profile.  B<sdrmend> is needed only when it is desired to repair
the data store without requiring all ION software to terminate and restart.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<sdrmend> has terminated successfully.

=item "1"

B<sdrmend> has terminated unsuccessfully.  See diagnostic messages in the
B<ion.log> log file for details.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item Can't initialize the SDR system.

Probable operations error: ION appears not to be initialized, in which case
there is no point in running B<sdrmend>.

=item Can't reload profile for SDR.

ION system error.  See earlier diagnostic messages posted to B<ion.log>
for details.  In this event it is unlikely that B<sdrmend> can be run
successfully, and it is also unlikely that it would have any effect if it
did run successfully.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

ionunlock(1), sdr(3), ionadmin(1)
