=head1 NAME

sdrwatch - SDR non-volatile data store activity monitor

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<sdrwatch> I<sdr_name> [ -t | -s | -r | -z ] [I<interval> [I<count> [ verbose ]]]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

For I<count> interations (defaulting to 1), B<sdrwatch> sleeps I<interval>
seconds and then performs the SDR operation indicated by the specified
mode: 's' to print statistics, 'r' to reset statistics, 'z' to print ZCO
space utilization, 't' (the default) to call the sdr_print_trace() function
(see sdr(3)) to report on SDR data storage management activity in the SDR
data store identified by I<sdr_name> during that interval.  If the optional
B<verbose> parameter is specified, the printed SDR activity trace will be
verbose as described in sdr(3).

If I<interval> is zero, B<sdrwatch> just performs the indicated operation
once (for 't', it merely prints a current usage summary for the indicated
data store) and terminates.

B<sdrwatch> is helpful for detecting and diagnosing storage space leaks.  For
debugging the ION protocol stack, I<sdr_name> is normally "ion" but might be
overridden by the value of sdrName in the .ionconfig file used to configure
the node under study.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<sdrwatch> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item Can't attach to sdr.

ION system error.  One possible cause is that ION has not yet been
initialized on the local computer; run ionadmin(1) to correct this.

=item Can't start trace.

Insufficient ION working memory to contain trace information.  Reinitialize
ION with more memory.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

sdr(3), psmwatch(1)
