=head1 NAME

sm2file - shared-memory linked list data extraction test program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<sm2file>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<sm2file> stress-tests shared-memory linked list data extraction by
retrieving and deleting all text file lines inserted into a shared-memory
linked list that is the root object of a PSM partition named "file2sm".

The operation of B<sm2file> echoes the cyclical operation of B<file2sm>:
the EOF lines inserted into the linked list by B<file2sm> punctuate the
writing of files that are copies of B<file2sm>'s original source text file.
The name of each file written by B<sm2file> is file_copy_I<cycleNbr>,
where I<cycleNbr> is, in effect, the count of EOF lines encountered in the
linked list up to the point at which the writing of this file began.

B<sm2file> may catch up with the data ingestion activity of B<file2sm>,
in which case it blocks (taking the B<file2sm> test semaphore) until
the linked list is no longer empty.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<sm2file> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item can't attach to shared memory

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item Can't manage shared memory.

PSM error.  Check for earlier diagnostics describing the cause of the
error; correct problem and rerun.

=item Can't create shared memory list.

PSM error.  Check for earlier diagnostics describing the cause of the
error; correct problem and rerun.

=item Can't create semaphore.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostics describing the cause of the
error; correct problem and rerun.

=item Can't open output file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item can't write to output file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

file2sm(1), smlist(3), psm(3)
