=head1 NAME

smlistsh - shared-memory linked list test shell

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<smlistsh> I<partition_size>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<smlistsh> attaches to a region of system memory (allocating it if
necessary, and placing it under PSM management as necessary) and offers
the user an interactive "shell" for testing various shared-memory linked
list management functions.

B<smlistsh> prints a prompt string (": ") to stdout, accepts a command from 
stdin, executes the command (possibly printing a diagnostic message), 
then prints another prompt string and so on.

The following commands are supported:

=over 4

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  Causes B<smlistsh> to print a summary of available
commands.  Same effect as the B<?> command.

=item B<?>

Another B<help> command.  Causes B<smlistsh> to print a summary of available
commands.  Same effect as the B<h> command.

=item B<k>

The B<key> command.  Computes and prints an unused shared-memory key, for
possible use in attaching to a shared-memory region.

=item B<+> I<key_value> I<size>

The B<attach> command.  Attaches B<smlistsh> to a region of shared memory.
I<key_value> identifies an existing shared-memory region, in the event
that you want to attach to an existing shared-memory region (possibly created
by another B<smlistsh> process running on the same computer).  To create and
attach to a new shared-memory region that other processes can attach to,
use a I<key_value> as returned by the B<key> command and supply the I<size>
of the new region.  If you want to create and attach to a new shared-memory
region that is for strictly private use, use -1 as key and supply the I<size>
of the new region.

=item B<->

The B<detach> command.  Detaches B<smlistsh> from the region of shared
memory it is currently using, but does not free any memory.

=item B<n>

The B<new> command.  Creates a new shared-memory list to operate on, within
the currently attached shared-memory region.  Prints the address of the list.

=item B<s> I<list_address>

The B<share> command.  Selects an existing shared-memory list to operate on,
within the currently attached shared-memory region.

=item B<a> I<element_value>

The B<append> command.  Appends a new list element, containing
I<element_value>, to the list on which B<smlistsh> is currently operating.

=item B<p> I<element_value>

The B<prepend> command.  Prepends a new list element, containing
I<element_value>, to the list on which B<smlistsh> is currently operating.

=item B<w>

The B<walk> command.  Prints the addresses and contents of all elements of
the list on which B<smlistsh> is currently operating.

=item B<f> I<element_value>

The B<find> command.  Finds the list element that contains I<element_value>,
within the list on which B<smlistsh> is currently operating, and prints
the address of that list element.

=item B<d> I<element_address>

The B<delete> command.  Deletes the list element located at I<element_address>.

=item B<r>

The B<report> command.  Prints a partition usage report, as per psm_report(3).

=item B<q>

The B<quit> command.  Detaches B<smlistsh> from the region of shared
memory it is currently using (without freeing any memory) and terminates
B<smlistsh>.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<smlistsh> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

No diagnostics apply.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

smlist(3)
