=head1 NAME

smrbtsh - shared-memory red-black tree test shell

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<smrbtsh> [I<command_file_name>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<smrbtsh> allocates a region of shared system memory, attaches to that
region, places it under PSM management, creates a temporary "test" red-black
tree in that memory region, and executes a series of shared-memory red-black
tree commands that exercise various tree access and management functions.

If I<command_file_name> is provided, then the commands in the indicated file
are executed and the program then terminates.  Upon termination, the shared
memory region allocated to B<smrbtsh> is detached and destroyed.

Otherwise, B<smrbtsh> offers the user an interactive "shell" for testing the
smrbt functions in a conversational manner: B<smrbtsh> prints a prompt string
(": ") to stdout, accepts a command from stdin, executes the command (possibly
printing a diagnostic message), then prints another prompt string and so on.
Upon execution of the 'q' command, the program terminates.

The following commands are supported:

=over 4

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  Causes B<smrbtsh> to print a summary of available
commands.  Same effect as the B<?> command.

=item B<?>

Another B<help> command.  Causes B<smrbtsh> to print a summary of available
commands.  Same effect as the B<h> command.

=item B<s> [I<seed_value>]

The B<seed> command.  Seeds random data value generator, which is used to
generate node values when the B<r> command is used.  If I<seed_value> is
omitted, uses current time (as returned by time(1)) as seed value.

=item B<r> [I<count>]

The B<random> command.  Inserts I<count> new nodes into the red-black tree,
using randomly selected unsigned long integers as the data values of the
nodes; I<count> defaults to 1 if omitted.

=item B<i> I<data_value>

The B<insert> command.  Inserts a single new node into the red-black tree,
using I<data_value> as the data value of the node.

=item B<f> I<data_value>

The B<find> command.  Finds the rbt node whose value is I<data_value>,
within the red-black tree, and prints the address of that node.  If the 
node is not found, prints address zero and prints the address of the
successor node in the tree.

=item B<d> I<data_value>

The B<delete> command.  Deletes the rbt node whose data value is
I<data_value>.

=item B<p>

The B<print> command.  Prints the red-black tree, using indentation to
indicate descent along paths of the tree.

Note: this function is supported only if the B<smrbt> library was built
with compilation flag -DSMRBT_DEBUG=1.

=item B<k>

The B<check> command.  Examines the red-black tree, noting the first
violation of red-black structure rules, if any.

Note: this function is supported only if the B<smrbt> library was built
with compilation flag -DSMRBT_DEBUG=1.

=item B<l>

The B<list> command.  Lists all nodes in the red-black tree in traversal
order, noting any nodes whose data values are not in ascending numerical
order.

=item B<q>

The B<quit> command.  Detaches B<smrbtsh> from the region of shared
memory it is currently using, destroys that shared memory region, and
terminates B<smrbtsh>.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<smrbtsh> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

No diagnostics apply.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

smrbt(3)
