=head1 NAME

ionrc - ION node management commands file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ION node management commands are passed to B<ionadmin> either in a file of
text lines or interactively at B<ionadmin>'s command prompt (:).  Commands
are interpreted line-by line, with exactly one command per line.  The formats
and effects of the ION node management commands are described below.

=head1 TIME REPRESENTATION

For many ION node management commands, time values must be passed as
arguments.  Every time value may be represented in either of two formats.
Absolute time is expressed as: 

=over 4

I<yyyy>/I<mm>/I<dd>-I<hh>:I<mm>:I<ss>

=back

Relative time (a number of seconds following the current I<reference time>,
which defaults to the current time at the moment I<ionadmin> began execution
but which can be overridden by the B<at> command described below) is expressed
as:

=over 4

+I<ss>

=back

=head1 COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<?>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<h> command.

=item B<#>

Comment line.  Lines beginning with B<#> are not interpreted.

=item B<e> { 1 | 0 }

Echo control.  Setting echo to 1 causes all output printed by ionadmin to
be logged as well as sent to stdout.  Setting echo to 0 disables this behavior.

=item B<v> 

Version number.  Prints out the version of ION currently installed.  HINT:
combine with B<e 1> command to log the version number at startup.

=item B<1> I<node_number> [ { I<ion_config_filename> | '.' | '' } ]

The B<initialize> command.  Until this command is executed, the local ION
node does not exist and most I<ionadmin> commands will fail.

The command configures the local node to be identified by I<node_number>, a
CBHE node number which uniquely identifies the node in the delay-tolerant
network.  It also configures ION's data space (SDR) and shared working-memory
region.  For this purpose it uses a set of default settings if no argument
follows I<node_number> or if the argument following I<node_number> is '';
otherwise it uses the configuration settings found in a configuration
file.  If configuration file name '.' is provided, then the configuration
file's name is implicitly "I<hostname>.ionconfig"; otherwise,
I<ion_config_filename> is taken to be the explicit configuration file name.
Please see ionconfig(5) for details of the configuration settings.

For example:

	1 19 ''

would initialize ION on the local computer, assigning the local ION node the
node number 19 and using default values to configure the data space and
shared working-memory region.

=item B<@> I<time>

The B<at> command.  This is used to set the reference time that will be
used for interpreting relative time values from now until the next revision
of reference time.  Note that the new reference time can be a relative time,
i.e., an offset beyond the current reference time.

=item B<^> I<region_number>

The B<region> command.  This is used to identify the region to which
all ensuing "add contact" operations (until this execution of ionadmin
terminates, or until the next B<region> command is processed) pertain.
A B<region> is an arbitarily managed set of nodes that customarily are able
to use contact graph routing to compute forwarding routes among themselves,
and which consequently share a common contact plan.  As such, there is a
one-to-one correspondence between regions and contact plans, so in
effect the B<region> command is used to switch between contact plans.
Regions are notionally quite small sets (on the order of 16-32 nodes)
because contact graph routing is computationally intensive.

=item B<a contact> I<start_time> I<stop_time> I<source_node> I<dest_node> I<xmit_data_rate> [I<confidence>]

The B<add contact> command.  This command schedules a period of data
transmission from I<source_node> to I<dest_node>.  The period of
transmission will begin at I<start_time> and end at I<stop_time>,
and the rate of data transmission will be I<xmit_data_rate> bytes/second.
Our confidence in the contact defaults to 1.0, indicating that the contact
is scheduled - not that non-occurrence of the contact is impossible, just
that occurrence of the contact is planned and scheduled rather than merely
imputed from past node behavior.  In the latter case, I<confidence>
indicates our estimation of the likelihood of this potential contact.

The period of time between the start and stop times of a contact is termed
the contact's "interval".  The intervals of scheduled contacts are not
allowed to overlap.

Three different types of contact can be intermixed within an .ionrc file that
defines a contact plan.

=over 4

=item 1  Registration

When I<start_time> is "-1", the contact signifies the "registration" of a
node in the region corresponding to the contact plan of which this contact is
a part.  In this case, I<source_node> and I<dest_node> must be identical and
non-zero.  A registration contact simply affirms the source node's permanent
membership in this region, persisting even during periods when the node
is able neither to send nor to receive data.  When inserted into the
contact plan, the contact's start and stop times are both automatically
set to the maximum POSIX time, its data rate is set to zero, and its
confidence value is set to 1.0.

=item 2  Hypothetical

When I<stop_time> is "0", the contact is "hypothetical".  A hypothetical
contact is an anticipated opportunity for the local node to transmit data,
or received data from, some potentially neighboring node in the same
region.  The nature of that contact is completely unknown; if and when
the contact occurs, the hypothetical contact will be transformed into
a "discovered" contact for the duration of the opportunity, after which
it will revert to being hypothetical.  I<source_node> and I<dest_node> must
B<NOT> be identical, and one or the other must identify the local node.  When
inserted into the contact plan, the contact's start time is automatically
set to zero, its stop time is set to the maximum POSIX time, its data rate
is set to zero, and its confidence value is set to 0.0.

=item 3  Scheduled

Otherwise, the contact is "scheduled".  A scheduled contact is a managed
opportunity to transmit data between nodes, as inferred (for example)
from a spacecraft or ground station operating plan.  I<start_time> must
be less than I<stop_time> and I<data_rate> and I<confidence> must both
be greater than zero.

=back

=item B<c contact> I<start_time> I<source_node> I<dest_node> I<xmit_data_rate> [I<confidence>]

The B<change contact> command.  This command changes the data transmission
rate and possibly our level of confidence in the scheduled period of data
transmission from I<source_node> to I<dest_node> starting at I<start_time>.

=item B<d contact> I<start_time> I<source_node> I<dest_node>

The B<delete contact> command.  This command deletes the scheduled
period of data transmission from I<source_node> to I<dest_node> starting
at I<start_time>.  To delete all contacts between some pair of nodes,
use '*' as I<start_time>.  To delete a registration contact, use "-1"
as I<start_time>.  To delete a hypothetical contact, use "0" as I<start_time>.

=item B<i contact> I<start_time> I<source_node> I<dest_node>

This command will print information (stop time, data rate, confidence) about
the scheduled period of transmission from I<source_node> to I<dest_node>
that starts at I<start_time>.

=item B<l contact>

This command lists all scheduled periods of data transmission.

=item B<a range> I<start_time> I<stop_time> I<one_node> I<the_other_node> I<distance>

The B<add range> command.  This command predicts a period of time during
which the distance from I<one_node> to I<the_other_node> will be constant
to within one light second.  The period will begin at I<start_time> and
end at I<stop_time>, and the distance between the nodes during that time
will be I<distance> light seconds.

B<NOTE> that the ranges declared by these commands are directional.  ION
does not automatically assume that the distance from node A to node B is
the same as the distance from node B to node A.  While this symmetry is
certainly true of geographic distance, the range that concerns ION is the
latency in propagating a signal from one node to the other; this latency may
be different in different directions because (for example) the signal from
B to A might need to be forwarded along a different convergence-layer network
path from the one used for the signal from A to B.

As a convenience, ION interprets a range command in which the node number of
the first cited node is numerically less than that of the second cited node
as implicitly declaring the same distance in the reverse direction B<UNLESS>
a second range command is present that cites the same two nodes in the opposite
order, which overrides the implicit declaration.  A range command in which
the node number of the first cited node is numerically greater than that of
the second cited node implies B<ABSOLUTELY NOTHING> about the distance in the
reverse direction.

=item B<d range> I<start_time> I<one_node> I<the_other_node>

The B<delete range> command.  This command deletes the predicted period of
constant distance between I<one_node> and I<the_other_node> starting
at I<start_time>.  To delete all ranges between some pair of nodes,
use '*' as I<start_time>.

=item B<i range> I<start_time> I<one_node> I<the_other_node>

This command will print information (the stop time and range) about the
predicted period of constant distance between I<one_node> and I<the_other_node>
that starts at I<start_time>.

=item B<l range>

This command lists all predicted periods of constant distance.

=item B<m utcdelta> I<local_time_sec_after_UTC>

This management command sets ION's understanding of the current difference
between correct UTC time and the localtime equivalent of the current calendar
(i.e., Unix epoch) time as reported by the clock for the local ION node's
computer.  This delta is automatically applied to locally
obtained time values whenever ION needs to know the current time.  For
machines that are synchronized by NTP, the value of this delta should be 0,
the default.

Note that the purpose of the UTC delta is not to correct for time zone
differences (which operating systems often do natively) but rather to
compensate for error (drift) in clocks, particularly spacecraft clocks.
The hardware clock on a spacecraft might gain or lose a few seconds every
month, to the point at which its understanding of the current time - as
reported out by the operating system and converted to UTC - might
differ significantly from the actual value of UTC as reported by authoritative
clocks on Earth.  To compensate for this difference without correcting the
clock itself (which can be difficult and dangerous), ION simply adds the UTC
delta to the calendar time reported by the operating system.

Note that this means that setting the UTC delta is not a one-time node
configuration activity but rather an ongoing node administration chore,
because a drifting clock typically keeps on drifting.

=item B<m clockerr> I<known_maximum_clock_error>

This management command sets ION's understanding of the accuracy of the
scheduled start and stop times of planned contacts, in seconds.  The
default value is 1.  When revising local data transmission and reception
rates, I<ionadmin> will adjust contact start and stop times by this
interval to be sure not to send bundles that arrive before the neighbor
expects data arrival or to discard bundles that arrive slightly before
they were expected.

=item B<m clocksync> [ { 1 | 0 } ]

This management command reports whether or not the computer on which
the local ION node is running has a synchronized clock, as discussed in
the description of the ionClockIsSynchronized() function (ion(3)).

If a Boolean argument is provided when the command is executed, the
characterization of the machine's clock is revised to conform with
the asserted value.  The default value is 1.

=item B<m production> I<planned_data_production_rate>

This management command sets ION's expectation of the mean rate of continuous
data origination by local BP applications throughout the period of time
over which congestion forecasts are computed, in bytes per second.  For
nodes that function only as routers this variable will normally be zero.  A
value of -1, which is the default, indicates that the rate of local data
production is unknown; in that case local data production is not considered
in the computation of congestion forecasts.

=item B<m consumption> I<planned_data_consumption_rate>

This management command sets ION's expectation of the mean rate of continuous
data delivery to local BP applications throughout the period of time
over which congestion forecasts are computed, in bytes per second.  For
nodes that function only as routers this variable will normally be zero.  A
value of -1, which is the default, indicates that the rate of local data
consumption is unknown; in that case local data consumption is not considered
in the computation of congestion forecasts.

=item B<m inbound> I<heap_occupancy_limit> [I<file_system_occupancy_limit>]

This management command sets the maximum number of megabytes of storage space
in ION's SDR non-volatile heap, and/or in the local file system, that can be
used for the storage of inbound zero-copy objects.  A value of -1 for either
limit signifies "leave unchanged".  The default heap limit is 30% of the SDR
data space's total heap size.  The default file system limit is 1 Terabyte.

=item B<m outbound> I<heap_occupancy_limit> [I<file_system_occupancy_limit>]

This management command sets the maximum number of megabytes of storage space
in ION's SDR non-volatile heap, and/or in the local file system, that can be
used for the storage of outbound zero-copy objects.  A value of -1 for either
limit signifies "leave unchanged".  The default heap limit is 30% of the SDR
data space's total heap size.  The default file system limit is 1 Terabyte.

=item B<m search> I<max_free_blocks_to_search_through>

This management command sets the limit on the number of free blocks
the heap space allocation function will search through in the nominal
free space bucket, looking for a sufficiently large free block, before
giving up and switching to the next higher non-empty free space bucket.
The default value is 0, which yields the highest memory management speed
but may leave heap space under-utilized: data objects may be stored in
unnecessarily large heap space blocks.  Increasing the value of the heap
space search limit will manage space more efficiently - with less waste -
but more slowly.

=item B<m horizon> { 0 | I<end_time_for_congestion_forecasts> }

This management command sets the end time for computed congestion
forecasts.  Setting congestion forecast horizon to zero sets the congestion
forecast end time to infinite time in the future: if there is any predicted
net growth in bundle storage space occupancy at all, following the end of
the last scheduled contact, then eventual congestion will be predicted.  The
default value is zero, i.e., no end time.

=item B<m alarm> 'I<congestion_alarm_command>'

This management command establishes a command which will automatically be
executed whenever I<ionadmin> predicts that the node will become congested
at some future time.  By default, there is no alarm command.

=item B<m usage>

This management command simply prints ION's current data space occupancy
(the number of megabytes of space in the SDR non-volatile heap and file system
that are occupied by inbound and outbound zero-copy objects), the total
zero-copy-object space occupancy ceiling, and the maximum level
of occupancy predicted by the most recent I<ionadmin> congestion forecast
computation.

=item B<m home> I<home_region_number>

This management command asserts that the node's home region is the region
that is identified by I<home_region_number>.  If no home region is asserted,
home region number defaults to zero, the "root region".

=item B<m outer> I<outer_region_number>

This management command asserts that the node's outer region is the region
that is identified by I<outer_region_number>.  Outer region number defaults
to -1, "no region", indicating that the node is a "terminal node".  When a
node's outer region number is not -1, the node is able to function as a
"passageway" by which bundles are conveyed between nodes in the home
region and nodes in the outer region.

=item B<m passageway> I<node_number> I<home_region_number> I<outer_region_number>

This management command declares the home and outer region numbers for the
indicated passageway node.  If the outer region number is -1, then the
node ceases to be a passageway; if the home region number is -1, then
the passageway is simply removed.  If neither region number is -1 but
neither region is one of the regions of which the local node is a member,
the command has no effect.  Otherwise, the home and outer region numbers
of the indicated node are recorded.  (This information is needed in order
to accomplish inter-region routing.)

=item B<r> 'I<command_text>'

The B<run> command.  This command will execute I<command_text> as if it
had been typed at a console prompt.  It is used to, for example, run
another administrative program.

=item B<s>

The B<start> command.  This command starts the I<rfxclock> task on the local
ION node.

=item B<x>

The B<stop> command.  This command stops the I<rfxclock> task on the local
ION node.

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<?> command.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item @ 2008/10/05-11:30:00

Sets the reference time to 1130 (UTC) on 5 October 2008.

=item a range +1 2009/01/01-00:00:00 1 2 12

Predicts that the distance between nodes 1 and 2 (endpoint IDs
ipn:1.0 and ipn:2.0) will remain constant at 12 light seconds over the
interval that begins 1 second after the reference time and ends at the
end of calendar year 2009.

=item a contact +60 +7260 1 2 10000

Schedules a period of transmission at 10,000 bytes/second from node 1 to
node 2, starting 60 seconds after the reference time and ending exactly
two hours (7200 seconds) after it starts.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

ionadmin(1), rfxclock(1), ion(3)
