=head1 NAME

ionsecrc - ION security policy management commands file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ION security policy management commands are passed to B<ionsecadmin> either
in a file of text lines or interactively at B<ionsecadmin>'s command prompt
(:).  Commands are interpreted line-by line, with exactly one command per
line.  The formats and effects of the ION security policy management commands
are described below.

A parameter identifed as an I<eid_expr> is an "endpoint ID expression."  For
all commands, whenever the last character of an endpoint ID expression is
the wild-card character '*', an applicable endpoint ID "matches" this EID
expression if all characters of the endpoint ID expression prior to the last
one are equal to the corresponding characters of that endpoint ID.  Otherwise
an applicable endpoint ID "matches" the EID expression only when all characters
of the EID and EID expression are identical.

=head1 COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<?>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<h> command.

=item B<#>

Comment line.  Lines beginning with B<#> are not interpreted.

=item B<e> { 1 | 0 }

Echo control.  Setting echo to 1 causes all output printed by ionsecadmin to
be logged as well as sent to stdout.  Setting echo to 0 disables this behavior.

=item B<v> 

Version number.  Prints out the version of ION currently installed.  HINT:
combine with B<e 1> command to log the version number at startup.

=item B<1>

The B<initialize> command.  Until this command is executed, the local ION
node has no security policy database and most I<ionsecadmin> commands will fail.

=item B<a key> I<key_name> I<file_name>

The B<add key> command.  This command adds a named key value to the
security policy database.  The content of I<file_name> is taken as the
value of the key.  Named keys can be referenced by other elements of the
security policy database.

=item B<c key> I<key_name> I<file_name>

The B<change key> command.  This command changes the value of the named
key, obtaining the new key value from the content of I<file_name>.

=item B<d key> I<key_name>

The B<delete key> command.  This command deletes the key identified by I<name>.

=item B<i key> I<key_name>

This command will print information about the named key, i.e., the length of
its current value.

=item B<l key>

This command lists all keys in the security policy database.

=item B<a bspbabrule> I<sender_eid_expr> I<receiver_eid_expr> I<{ '' | ciphersuite_name key_name }>

The B<add bspbabrule> command.  This command adds a rule specifying the
manner in which Bundle Authentication Block (BAB) validation will be applied
to all bundles sent from any node whose endpoints' IDs match
I<sender_eid_expr> and received at any node whose endpoints' IDs
match I<receiver_eid_expr>.  Both I<sender_eid_expr> and I<receiver_eid_expr>
should terminate in wild-card characters, because both the security source
and security destination of a BAB are actually nodes rather than individual
endpoints.

If a zero-length string ('') is indicated instead of a I<ciphersuite_name> then
BAB validation is disabled for this sender/receiver EID expression pair: all
bundles sent from nodes with matching administrative endpoint IDs to nodes
with matching administrative endpoint IDs will be immediately deemed authentic.
Otherwise, a bundle from a node with matching administrative endpoint ID to a
node with matching administrative endpoint ID will only be deemed authentic
if it contains a BAB computed via the ciphersuite named by I<ciphersuite_name>
using a key value that is identical to the current value of the key named
I<key_name> in the local security policy database.

B<NOTE>: if the security policy database contains no BAB rules at all, then
BAB authentication is disabled; all bundles received from all neighboring
nodes are considered authentic.  Otherwise, BAB rules B<must> be defined
for all nodes from which bundles are to be received; all bundles received
from any node for which no BAB rule is defined are considered inauthentic
and are discarded.

=item B<c bspbabrule> I<sender_eid_expr> I<receiver_eid_expr> I<{ '' | ciphersuite_name key_name }>

The B<change bspbabrule> command.  This command changes the ciphersuite
name and/or key name for the BAB rule pertaining to the sender/receiver EID
expression pair identified by I<sender_eid_expr> and I<receiver_eid_expr>.
Note that the I<eid_expr>s must exactly match those of the rule that is to
be modified, including any terminating wild-card character.  

=item B<d bspbabrule> I<sender_eid_expr> I<receiver_eid_expr>

The B<delete bspbabrule> command.  This command deletes the BAB rule
pertaining to the sender/receiver EID expression pair identified by
I<sender_eid_expr> and I<receiver_eid_expr>.  Note that the I<eid_expr>s
must exactly match those of the rule that is to be deleted, including any
terminating wild-card character.

=item B<i bspbabrule> I<sender_eid_expr> I<receiver_eid_expr>

This command will print information (the ciphersuite and key names) about the
BAB rule pertaining to I<sender_eid_expr> and I<receiver_eid_expr>.

=item B<l bspbabrule>

This command lists all BAB rules in the security policy database.

=item B<a bsppibrule> I<sender_eid_expr> I<receiver_eid_expr> I<block type number> I<{ '' | ciphersuite_name key_name }>

The B<add bsppibrule> command.  This command adds a rule specifying the
manner in which Payload Integrity Block (PIB) validation will be applied
to all bundles sent from any node whose administrative endpoint ID matches
I<sender_eid_expr> and received at any node whose administrative endpoint ID
ID matches I<receiver_eid_expr>.

If a zero-length string ('') is indicated instead of a I<ciphersuite_name> then
PIB validation is disabled for this sender/receiver EID expression pair: all
bundles sent from nodes with matching administrative endpoint IDs to nodes
with matching administrative endpoint IDs will be immediately deemed secure.
Otherwise, a bundle from a node with matching administrative endpoint ID to a
node with matching administrative endpoint ID will only be deemed secure
if it contains a PIB computed via the ciphersuite named by I<ciphersuite_name>
using a key value that is identical to the current value of the key named
I<key_name> in the local security policy database.

=item B<c bsppibrule> I<sender_eid_expr> I<receiver_eid_expr> I<block type number> I<{ '' | ciphersuite_name key_name }>

The B<change bsppibrule> command.  This command changes the ciphersuite
name and/or key name for the PIB rule pertaining to the sender/receiver EID
expression pair identified by I<sender_eid_expr> and I<receiver_eid_expr>.
Note that the I<eid_expr>s must exactly match those of the rule that is to
be modified, including any terminating wild-card character.  

=item B<d bsppibrule> I<sender_eid_expr> I<receiver_eid_expr> I<block type number>

The B<delete bsppibrule> command.  This command deletes the PIB rule
pertaining to the sender/receiver EID expression pair identified by
I<sender_eid_expr> and I<receiver_eid_expr>.  Note that the I<eid_expr>s
must exactly match those of the rule that is to be deleted, including any
terminating wild-card character.

=item B<i bsppibrule> I<sender_eid_expr> I<receiver_eid_expr> I<block type number>

This command will print information (the ciphersuite and key names) about the
PIB rule pertaining to I<sender_eid_expr> and I<receiver_eid_expr>.

=item B<l bsppibrule>

This command lists all PIB rules in the security policy database.

=item B<x> I<[ { ~ | sender_eid_expr } [ { ~ | receiver_eid_expr} [ { ~ | bab | pib | pcb | esb } ] ] ]>

This command will clear all rules for the indicated type of security block
between the indicated security source and security destination.  If block
type is omitted it defaults to B<~> signifying "all security blocks".  If
both block type and security destination are omitted, security destination
defaults to B<~> signifying "all security destinations".  If all three
command-line parameters are omitted, then security source defaults to B<~>
signifying "all security sources".

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<?> command.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item a key BABKEY ./babkey.txt

Adds a new key named "BABKEY" whose value is the content of the file
"./babkey.txt".

=item a bspbabrule ipn:19.* ipn:11.* HMAC_SHA1 BABKEY

Adds a BAB rule requiring that all bundles sent from node number 19 to node
number 11 contain Bundle Authentication Blocks computed via the HMAC_SHA1
ciphersuite using a key value that is identical to the current value of the
key named "BABKEY" in the local security policy database.

=item c bspbabrule ipn:19.* ipn:11.* ''

Changes the BAB rule pertaining to all bundles sent from node number 19 to
node number 11.  BAB checking is disabled; these bundles will be automatically
deemed authentic.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

ionsecadmin(1)
