=head1 NAME

cfdp - CCSDS File Delivery Protocol (CFDP) communications library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    #include "cfdp.h"

    typedef enum
    {
	CksumTypeUnknown = -1,
	ModularChecksum = 0,
	CRC32CChecksum = 2,
	NullChecksum = 15
    } CfdpCksumType;

    typedef int (*CfdpReaderFn)(int fd, unsigned int *checksum, CfdpCksumType ckType);

    typedef int (*CfdpMetadataFn)(uvast fileOffset, unsigned int recordOffset, unsigned int length, int sourceFileFD, char *buffer);

    typedef enum
    {
        CfdpCreateFile = 0,
        CfdpDeleteFile,
        CfdpRenameFile,
        CfdpAppendFile,
        CfdpReplaceFile,
        CfdpCreateDirectory,
        CfdpRemoveDirectory,
        CfdpDenyFile,
        CfdpDenyDirectory
    } CfdpAction;

    typedef enum
    {
        CfdpNoEvent = 0,
        CfdpTransactionInd,
        CfdpEofSentInd,
        CfdpTransactionFinishedInd,
        CfdpMetadataRecvInd,
        CfdpFileSegmentRecvInd,
        CfdpEofRecvInd,
        CfdpSuspendedInd,
        CfdpResumedInd,
        CfdpReportInd,
        CfdpFaultInd,
        CfdpAbandonedInd
    } CfdpEventType;

    typedef struct
    {
	char		*sourceFileName;
	char		*destFileName;
	MetadataList	messagesToUser;
	MetadataList	filestoreRequests;
	CfdpHandler	*faultHandlers;
	int		unacknowledged;
	unsigned int	flowLabelLength;
	unsigned char	*flowLabel;
	int		recordBoundsRespected;
	int		closureRequested;
    } CfdpProxyTask;

    typedef struct
    {
	char		*directoryName;
	char		*destFileName;
    } CfdpDirListTask;

    [see description for available functions]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The cfdp library provides functions enabling application software to use CFDP
to send and receive files.  It conforms to the Class 1 (Unacknowledged)
service class defined in the CFDP Blue Book and includes implementations of
several standard CFDP user operations.

In the ION implementation of CFDP, the CFDP notion of B<entity ID> is taken
to be identical to the BP (CBHE) notion of DTN B<node number>.

CFDP entity and transaction numbers may be up to 64 bits in length.  For
portability to 32-bit machines, these numbers are stored in the CFDP state
machine as structures of type CfdpNumber.

To simplify the interface between CFDP the user application without risking
storage leaks, the CFDP-ION API uses MetadataList objects.  A MetadataList is
a specially formatted SDR list of user messages, filestore requests, or
filestore responses.  During the time that a MetadataList is pending
processing via the CFDP API, but is not yet (or is no longer) reachable
from any FDU object, a pointer to the list is appended to one of the
lists of MetadataList objects in the CFDP non-volatile database.  This
assures that any unplanned termination of the CFDP daemons won't leave any
SDR lists unreachable -- and therefore un-recyclable -- due to the
absence of references to those lists.  Restarting CFDP automatically
purges any unused MetadataLists from the CFDP database.  The "user data"
variable of the MetadataList itself is used to implement this feature:
while the list is reachable only from the database root, its user data
variable points to the database root list from which it is referenced;
while the list is attached to a File Delivery Unit, its user data is null. 

By default, CFDP transmits the data in a source file in segments of fixed size.
The user application can override this behavior at the time transmission of
a file is requested, by supplying a file reader callback function that reads
the file -- one byte at a time -- until it detects the end of a "record" that
has application significance.  Each time CFDP calls the reader function, the
function must return the length of one such record (which must be no greater
than 65535).

When CFDP is used to transmit a file, a 32-bit checksum must be provided in
the "EOF" PDU to enable the receiver of the file to assure that it was not
corrupted in transit.  When an application-specific file reader function
is supplied, that function is responsible for updating the computed checksum
as it reads each byte of the file; a CFDP library function is provided for
this purpose.  Two types of file checksums are supported: a simple modular
checksum or a 32-bit CRC.  The checksum type must be passed through to the
CFDP checksum computation function, so it must be provided by (and thus to)
the file reader function.

Per-segment metadata may be provided by the user application.  To enable
this, upon formation of each file data segment, CFDP will invoke the
user-provided per-segment metadata composition callback function (if
any), a function conforming to the CfdpMetadataFn type definition.  The
callback will be passed the offset of the segment within the file, the
segment's offset within the current record (as applicable), the length
of the segment, an open file descriptor for the source file (in case
the data must be read in order to construct the metadata), and a 63-byte
buffer in which to place the new metadata.  The callback function must
return the length of metadata to attach to the file data segment PDU
(may be zero) or -1 in the event of a general system failure.

The return value for each CFDP "request" function (put, cancel, suspend,
resume, report) is a reference number that enables "events" obtained by
calling cfdp_get_event() to be matched to the requests that caused them.
Events with reference number set to zero are events that were caused by
autonomous CFDP activity, e.g., the reception of a file data segment.

=over 4

=item int cfdp_attach()

Attaches the application to CFDP functionality on the local computer.  Returns
0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int cfdp_entity_is_started()

Returns 1 if the local CFDP entity has been started and not yet stopped,
0 otherwise.

=item void cfdp_detach()

Terminates all access to CFDP functionality on the local computer.

=item void cfdp_compress_number(CfdpNumber *toNbr, uvast from)

Converts an unsigned B<vast> number into a CfdpNumber structure, e.g., for
use when invoking the cfdp_put() function.

=item void cfdp_decompress_number(uvast toNbr, CfdpNumber *from)

Converts a numeric value in a CfdpNumber structure to an unsigned B<vast>
integer.

=item void cfdp_update_checksum(unsigned char octet, uvast *offset, unsigned int *checksum, CfdpCksumType ckType)

For use by an application-specific file reader callback function, which must
pass to cfdp_update_checksum() the value of each byte (octet) it reads.
I<offset> must be I<octet>'s displacement in bytes from the start of the
file.  The I<checksum> pointer is provided to the reader function by CFDP.

=item MetadataList cfdp_create_usrmsg_list()

Creates a non-volatile linked list, suitable for containing messages-to-user
that are to be presented to cfdp_put().

=item int cfdp_add_usrmsg(MetadataList list, unsigned char *text, int length)

Appends the indicated message-to-user to I<list>.

=item int cfdp_get_usrmsg(MetadataList list, unsigned char *textBuf, int *length)

Removes from I<list> the first of the remaining messages-to-user contained in
the list and delivers its text and length.  When the last message in the
list is delivered, destroys the list.

=item void cfdp_destroy_usrmsg_list(MetadataList *list)

Removes and destroys all messages-to-user in I<list> and destroys the list.

=item MetadataList cfdp_create_fsreq_list()

Creates a non-volatile linked list, suitable for containing filestore requests
that are to be presented to cfdp_put().

=item int cfdp_add_fsreq(MetadataList list, CfdpAction action, char *firstFileName, char *seconfdFIleName)

Appends the indicated filestore request to I<list>.

=item int cfdp_get_fsreq(MetadataList list, CfdpAction *action, char *firstFileNameBuf, char *secondFileNameBuf)

Removes from I<list> the first of the remaining filestore requests contained in
the list and delivers its action code and file names.  When the last request in
the list is delivered, destroys the list.

=item void cfdp_destroy_fsreq_list(MetadataList *list)

Removes and destroys all filestore requests in I<list> and destroys the list.

=item int cfdp_get_fsresp(MetadataList list, CfdpAction *action, int *status, char *firstFileNameBuf, char *secondFileNameBuf, char *messageBuf)

Removes from I<list> the first of the remaining filestore responses contained
in the list and delivers its action code, status, file names, and message.
When the last response in the list is delivered, destroys the list.

=item void cfdp_destroy_fsresp_list(MetadataList *list)

Removes and destroys all filestore responses in I<list> and destroys the list.

=item int cfdp_read_space_packets(int fd, unsigned int *checksum)

This is a standard "reader" function that segments the source file on CCSDS
space packet boundaries.  Multiple small packets may be aggregated into a
single file data segment.

=item int cfdp_read_text_lines(int fd, unsigned int *checksum)

This is a standard "reader" function that segments a source file of text lines
on line boundaries.

=item int cfdp_put(CfdpNumber *destinationEntityNbr, unsigned int utParmsLength, unsigned char *utParms, char *sourceFileName, char *destFileName, CfdpReaderFn readerFn, CfdpMetadataFn metadataFn, CfdpHandler *faultHandlers, unsigned int flowLabelLength, unsigned char *flowLabel, unsigned int closureLatency, MetadataList messagesToUser, MetadataList filestoreRequests, CfdpTransactionId *transactionId)

Sends the file identified by I<sourceFileName> to the CFDP entity identified by
I<destinationEntityNbr>.  I<destinationFileName> is used to indicate the name
by which the file will be catalogued upon arrival at its final destination; if
NULL, the destination file name defaults to I<sourceFileName>.  If 
I<sourceFileName> is NULL, it is assumed that the application is requesting
transmission of metadata only (as discussed below) and I<destinationFileName>
is ignored.  Note that both I<sourceFileName> and I<destinationFileName> are
interpreted as path names, i.e., directory paths may be indicated in either
or both.  The syntax of path names is opaque to CFDP; the syntax of
I<sourceFileName> must conform to the path naming syntax of the source
entity's file system and the syntax of I<destinationFileName> must conform
to the path naming syntax of the destination entity's file system.

The byte array identified by I<utParms>, if non-NULL, is interpreted as
transmission control information that is to be passed on to the UT layer.  The
nominal UT layer for ION's CFDP being Bundle Protocol, the I<utParms> array is
normally a pointer to a structure of type BpUtParms; see the I<bp> man page
for a discussion of the parameters in that structure. 

I<closureLatency> is the length of time following transmission of the EOF PDU
within which a responding Transaction Finish PDU is expected.  If no Finish
PDU is requested, this parameter value should be zero.

I<messagesToUser> and I<filestoreRequests>, where non-zero, must be the
addresses of non-volatile linked lists (that is, linked lists in ION's
SDR database) of CfdpMsgToUser and CfdpFilestoreRequest objects identifying
metadata that are intended to accompany the transmitted file.  Note that
this metadata may accompany a file of zero length (as when I<sourceFileName>
is NULL as noted above) -- a transmission of metadata only.

On success, the function populates I<*transactionID> with the source entity
ID and the transaction number assigned to this transmission and returns the
request number identifying this "put" request.  The transaction ID may be
used to suspend, resume, cancel, or request a report on the progress of
this transmission.  cfdp_put() returns -1 on any error.

=item int cfdp_cancel(CfdpTransactionId *transactionId)

Cancels transmission or reception of the indicated transaction.  Note that,
since the ION implementation of CFDP is Unacknowledged, cancellation of a
file transmission may have little effect.  Returns request number on success,
-1 on any error.

=item int cfdp_suspend(CfdpTransactionId *transactionId)

Suspends transmission of the indicated transaction.  Note that, since the ION
implementation of CFDP is Unacknowledged, suspension of a file transmission
may have little effect.  Returns request number on success, -1 on any error.

=item int cfdp_resume(CfdpTransactionId *transactionId)

Resumes transmission of the indicated transaction.  Note that, since the ION
implementation of CFDP is Unacknowledged, resumption of a file transmission
may have little effect.  Returns request number on success, -1 on any error.

=item int cfdp_report(CfdpTransactionId *transactionId)

Requests issuance of a report on the transmission or reception progress of
the indicated transaction.  The report takes the form of a character string
that is returned in a CfdpEvent structure; use cfdp_get_event() to receive
the event (which may be matched to the request by request number).  Returns
request number on success, 0 if transaction is unknown, -1 on any error.

=item int cfdp_get_event(CfdpEventType *type, time_t *time, int *reqNbr, CfdpTransactionId *transactionId, char *sourceFileNameBuf, char *destFileNameBuf, uvast *fileSize, MetadataList *messagesToUser, uvast *offset, unsigned int *length, CfdpCondition *condition, uvast *progress, CfdpFileStatus *fileStatus, CfdpDeliveryCode *deliveryCode, CfdpTransactionId *originatingTransactionId, char *statusReportBuf, MetadataList *filestoreResponses);

Populates return value fields with data from the oldest CFDP event not yet
delivered to the application.  

cfdp_get_event() always blocks indefinitely until an CFDP processing
event is delivered or the function is interrupted by an invocation of
cfdp_interrupt().

On application error, returns zero but sets errno to EINVAL.  Returns -1 on
system failure, zero otherwise.

=item void cfdp_interrupt()

Interrupts an cfdp_get_event() invocation.  This function is designed to be
called from a signal handler.

=item int cfdp_rput(CfdpNumber *respondentEntityNbr, unsigned int utParmsLength, unsigned char *utParms, char *sourceFileName, char *destFileName, CfdpReaderFn readerFn, CfdpHandler *faultHandlers, unsigned int flowLabelLength, unsigned char *flowLabel, unsigned int closureLatency, MetadataList messagesToUser, MetadataList filestoreRequests, CfdpNumber *beneficiaryEntityNbr, CfdpProxyTask *proxyTask, CfdpTransactionId *transactionId)

Sends to the indicated respondent entity a "proxy" request to perform a file
transmission.  The transmission is to be subject to the configuration values
in I<proxyTask> and the destination of the file is to be the entity identified
by I<beneficiaryEntityNbr>.

=item int cfdp_rput_cancel(CfdpNumber *respondentEntityNbr, unsigned int utParmsLength, unsigned char *utParms, char *sourceFileName, char *destFileName, CfdpReaderFn readerFn, CfdpHandler *faultHandlers, unsigned int flowLabelLength, unsigned char *flowLabel, unsigned int closureLatency, MetadataList messagesToUser, MetadataList filestoreRequests, CfdpTransactionId *rputTransactionId, CfdpTransactionId *transactionId)

Sends to the indicated respondent entity a request to cancel a prior "proxy"
file transmission request as identified by I<rputTransactionId>, which is
the value of I<transactionId> that was returned by that earlier proxy
transmission request.

=item int cfdp_get(CfdpNumber *respondentEntityNbr, unsigned int utParmsLength, unsigned char *utParms, char *sourceFileName, char *destFileName, CfdpReaderFn readerFn, CfdpHandler *faultHandlers, unsigned int flowLabelLength, unsigned char *flowLabel, unsigned int closureLatency, MetadataList messagesToUser, MetadataList filestoreRequests, CfdpProxyTask *proxyTask, CfdpTransactionId *transactionId)

Same as B<cfdp_rput> except that I<beneficiaryEntityNbr> is omitted; the local
entity is the implicit beneficiary of the request.

=item int cfdp_rls(CfdpNumber *respondentEntityNbr, unsigned int utParmsLength, unsigned char *utParms, char *sourceFileName, char *destFileName, CfdpReaderFn readerFn, CfdpHandler *faultHandlers, unsigned int flowLabelLength, unsigned char *flowLabel, unsigned int closureLatency, MetadataList messagesToUser, MetadataList filestoreRequests, CfdpDirListTask *dirListTask, CfdpTransactionId *transactionId)

Sends to the indicated respondent entity a request to prepare a directory
listing, save that listing in a file, and send it to the local entity.  The
request is subject to the configuration values in I<dirListTask>. 

=item int cfdp_preview(CfdpTransactionId *transactionId, uvast offset, unsigned int length, char *buffer);

This function is provided to enable the application to get an advance look
at the content of a file that CFDP has not yet fully received.  Reads I<length>
bytes starting at I<offset> bytes from the start of the file that is the
destination file of the transaction identified by I<transactionID>, into
I<buffer>.  On user error (transaction is nonexistent or is outbound, or
offset is beyond the end of file) returns 0.  On system failure, returns -1.
Otherwise returns number of bytes read.

=item int cfdp_map(CfdpTransactionId *transactionId, unsigned int *extentCount, CfdpExtent *extentsArray);

This function is provided to enable the application to report on the portions
of a partially-received file that have been received and written.  Lists the
received continuous data extents in the destination file of the transaction
identified by I<transactionID>.  The extents (offset and length) are returned
in the elements of I<extentsArray>; the number of extents returned in the
array is the total number of continuous extents received so far, or
I<extentCount>, whichever is less.  The total number of extents received
so far is returned as the new value of I<extentCount>.  On system failure,
returns -1.  Otherwise returns 0.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

cfdpadmin(1), cfdprc(5)
