=head1 NAME

ams - CCSDS Asynchronous Message Service(AMS) communications library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    #include "ams.h"

    typedef void		(*AmsMsgHandler)(AmsModule module,
					void *userData,
					AmsEvent *eventRef,
					int continuumNbr,
					int unitNbr,
					int moduleNbr,
					int subjectNbr,
					int contentLength,
					char *content,
					int context,
					AmsMsgType msgType,
					int priority,
					unsigned char flowLabel);

    typedef void		(*AmsRegistrationHandler)(AmsModule module,
					void *userData,
					AmsEvent *eventRef,
					int unitNbr,
					int moduleNbr,
					int roleNbr);

    typedef void		(*AmsUnregistrationHandler)(AmsModule module,
					void *userData,
					AmsEvent *eventRef,
					int unitNbr,
					int moduleNbr);

    typedef void		(*AmsInvitationHandler)(AmsModule module,
					void *userData,
					AmsEvent *eventRef,
					int unitNbr,
					int moduleNbr,
					int domainRoleNbr,
					int domainContinuumNbr,
					int domainUnitNbr,
					int subjectNbr,
					int priority,
					unsigned char flowLabel,
					AmsSequence sequence,
					AmsDiligence diligence);

    typedef void		(*AmsDisinvitationHandler)(AmsModule module,
					void *userData,
					AmsEvent *eventRef,
					int unitNbr,
					int moduleNbr,
					int domainRoleNbr,
					int domainContinuumNbr,
					int domainUnitNbr,
					int subjectNbr);

    typedef void		(*AmsSubscriptionHandler)(AmsModule module,
					void *userData,
					AmsEvent *eventRef,
					int unitNbr,
					int moduleNbr,
					int domainRoleNbr,
					int domainContinuumNbr,
					int domainUnitNbr,
					int subjectNbr,
					int priority,
					unsigned char flowLabel,
					AmsSequence sequence,
					AmsDiligence diligence);

    typedef void		(*AmsUnsubscriptionHandler)(AmsModule module,
					void *userData,
					AmsEvent *eventRef,
					int unitNbr,
					int moduleNbr,
					int domainRoleNbr,
					int domainContinuumNbr,
					int domainUnitNbr,
					int subjectNbr);

    typedef void		(*AmsUserEventHandler)(AmsModule module,
					void *userData,
					AmsEvent *eventRef,
					int code,
					int dataLength,
					char *data);

    typedef void		(*AmsMgtErrHandler)(void *userData,
					AmsEvent *eventRef);

    typedef struct
    {
	AmsMsgHandler			msgHandler;
	void				*msgHandlerUserData;
	AmsRegistrationHandler		registrationHandler;
	void				*registrationHandlerUserData;
	AmsUnregistrationHandler	unregistrationHandler;
	void				*unregistrationHandlerUserData;
	AmsInvitationHandler		invitationHandler;
	void				*invitationHandlerUserData;
	AmsDisinvitationHandler		disinvitationHandler;
	void				*disinvitationHandlerUserData;
	AmsSubscriptionHandler		subscriptionHandler;
	void				*subscriptionHandlerUserData;
	AmsUnsubscriptionHandler	unsubscriptionHandler;
	void				*unsubscriptionHandlerUserData;
	AmsUserEventHandler		userEventHandler;
	void				*userEventHandlerUserData;
	AmsMgtErrHandler		errHandler;
	void				*errHandlerUserData;
    } AmsEventMgt;

    typedef enum
    {
	AmsArrivalOrder = 0,
	AmsTransmissionOrder
    } AmsSequence;

    typedef enum
    {
	AmsBestEffort = 0,
	AmsAssured
    } AmsDiligence;

    typedef enum
    {
	AmsRegistrationState,
	AmsInvitationState,
	AmsSubscriptionState
    } AmsStateType;

    typedef enum
    {
	AmsStateBegins = 1,
	AmsStateEnds
    } AmsChangeType;

    typedef enum
    {
	AmsMsgUnary = 0,
	AmsMsgQuery,
	AmsMsgReply,
	AmsMsgNone
    } AmsMsgType;

    [see description for available functions]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The ams library provides functions enabling application software to use AMS
to send and receive brief messages, up to 65000 bytes in length.  It conforms
to AMS Blue Book, including support for Remote AMS (RAMS).

In the ION implementation of RAMS, the "RAMS network protocol" may be either
the DTN Bundle Protocol (RFC 5050) or -- mainly for testing purposes -- the
User Datagram Protocol (RFC 768).  BP is the default.  When BP is used as
the RAMS network protocol, endpoints are by default assumed to conform to
the "ipn" endpoint identifier scheme with B<node number> set to the AMS
B<continuum number> and B<service number> set to the AMS B<venture number>.

Note that RAMS functionality is enabled by instantiating a B<ramsgate> daemon,
which is simply an AMS application program that acts as a gateway between the
local AMS message space and the RAMS network.

AMS differs from other ION packages in that there is no utilization of
non-volatile storage (aside from the BP functionality in RAMS, if applicable).
Since there is no non-volatile AMS database, there is no AMS administration
program and there are no library functions for attaching to or detaching
from such a database.  AMS is instantiated by commencing operation of the
AMS real-time daemon B<amsd>; once B<amsd> is running, AMS application
programs ("modules") can be started.  All management of AMS operational
state is performed automatically in real time.

However, B<amsd> and the AMS application programs all require
access to a common store of configuration data at startup in order to load
their Management Information Bases.  This configuration data must reside in
a readable file, which may take either of two forms: a file of XML statements
conforming to the scheme described in the amsxml(5) man page, or a file of
simple but less powerful configuration statements as described in the amsrc(5)
man page.  The B<amsxml> alternative requires that the B<expat> XML parsing
system be installed; the B<amsrc> alternative was developed to simplify
deployment of AMS in environments in which B<expat> is not readily supported.
Selection of the configuration file format is a compile-time decision,
implemented by setting (or not setting) the -DNOEXPAT compiler option.

The path name of the applicable configuration file may be passed as a
command-line parameter to B<amsd> and as a registration function parameter
by any AMS application program.  Note, though, that B<ramsgate> and the
AMS test and utility programs included in ION always assume that the
configuration file resides in the current working directory and that it is
named "mib.amsrc" if AMS was built with -DNOEXPAT, "amsmib.xml" otherwise.

The transport services that are made available to AMS communicating entities
are declared by the transportServiceLoaders array in the libams.c source
file.  This array is fixed at compile time.  The order of preference of the
transport services in the array is hard-coded, but the inclusion or omission 
of individual transport services is controlled by setting compiler options.
The "udp" transport service -- nominally the most preferred because it
imposes the least processing and transmission overhead -- is included by
setting the -DUDPTS option.  The "dgr" service is included by setting the
-DDGRTS option.  The "vmq" (VxWorks message queue) service, supported only
on VxWorks, is included by setting the -DVMQTS option.  The "tcp" transport
service -- selected only when its quality of service is required -- is
included by setting the -DTCPTS option.

The operating state of any single AMS application program is managed in
an opaque AmsModule object.  This object is returned when the application
begins AMS operations (that is, registers) and must be provided as an
argument to most AMS functions.

=over 4

=item int ams_register(char *mibSource, char *tsorder, char *applicationName, char *authorityName, char *unitName, char *roleName, AmsModule *module)

Registers the application within a cell (identified by I<unitName>) of a
message space that is that portion of the venture identified by
I<applicationName> and I<authorityName> that runs within the local AMS
continuum.  I<roleName> identifies the role that this application will
perform in this venture.  The operating state of the registered application
is returned in I<module>.

The application module's identifying parameters are validated against the
configuration information in the applicable Management Information Base,
which is automatically loaded from the file whose pathname is provided
in I<mibSource>.  If I<mibSource> is the zero-length string ("") then
the default configuration file name is used as noted above.  If
I<mibSource> is NULL then a rudimentary hard-coded default MIB, useful
for basic testing purposes, is loaded.  This default MIB defines a single
venture for application "amsdemo" and authority "test", using only the
"dgr" transport service, with the configuration server residing on the
local host machine; subject "text" and roles "shell", "log", "pitch",
and "catch" are defined.

The I<tsorder> argument is normally NULL.  If non-NULL it must be a
NULL-terminated string of ASCII numeric digits '0' through '9' identifying
an alternative transport service preference order that overrides the standard
transport service preference order defined by the hard-coded array of
transportServiceLoaders in the libams.c source file.  Each character of
the I<tsorder> string must represent the index position of one of the
transport services within the array.  For example, if services "udp", "dgr",
"vmq", and "tcp" are all available in the array, a I<tsorder> string of "32" 
would indicate that this application will only communicate using the tcp
and vmq services; services 0 (udp) and 1 (dgr) will not be used, and tcp
is preferred to vmq when both are candidate services for transmission of
a given message.

Returns 0 on success.  On any error, sets I<module> to NULL and returns -1.

=item int ams_unregister(AmsModule module)

Reverses the operation of ams_unregister(), destroying I<module>.  Returns
0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int ams_invite(AmsModule module, int roleNbr, int continuumNbr, int unitNbr, int subjectNbr, int priority, unsigned char flowLabel, AmsSequence sequence, AmsDiligence diligence)

Announces this module's agreement to receive messages on the subject
identified by I<subjectNbr>.

The invitation is extended only to modules registered in the role identified
by I<roleNbr> (where 0 indicates "all roles"), operating in the continuum
identifed by I<continuumNbr> (where 0 indicates "all continua"), and
registered within the unit identified by I<unitNbr> (where 0 indicates
the venture's root unit) or any of that unit's subunits.  These parameters
define the "domain" of the invitation.

Such messages should be sent at the priority indicated by I<priority> with
flow label as indicated by I<flowLabel> and with quality of service as
indicated by I<sequence> and I<diligence>.  I<priority> must be an integer
in the range 1-15, where priority 1 indicates the greatest urgency.  Flow
labels are passed through to transport services and are opaque to AMS itself;
in the absence of defined flow labels, a value of 0 is typically used.  These
parameters define the "class of service" of the invitation.

Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int ams_disinvite(AmsModule module, int roleNbr, int continuumNbr, int unitNbr, int subjectNbr)

Rescinds the invitation characterized by the indicated subject and
domain.  Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int ams_subscribe(AmsModule module, int roleNbr, int continuumNbr, int unitNbr, int subjectNbr, int priority, unsigned char flowLabel, AmsSequence sequence, AmsDiligence diligence)

Announces this module's subscription to messages on the indicated subject,
constrained by the indicated domain, and transmitted subject to the indicated
class of service.  Note that subscriptions differ from invitations in that 
reception of these messages is actively solicited, not just permitted.

Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int ams_unsubscribe(AmsModule module, int roleNbr, int continuumNbr, int unitNbr, int subjectNbr)

Cancels the subscription characterized by the indicated subject and
domain.  Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int ams_publish(AmsModule module, int subjectNbr, int priority, unsigned char flowLabel, int contentLength, char *content, int context)

Publishes I<contentLength> bytes of data starting at I<content> as the content
of a message that is sent to all modules whose subscriptions to I<subjectNbr>
are characterized by a domain that includes this module.  I<priority> and
I<flowLabel>, if non-zero, override class of service as requested in the
subscriptions.  I<context> is an opaque "hint" to the receiving modules;
its use is application-specific.

Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int ams_send(AmsModule module, int continuumNbr, int unitNbr, int moduleNbr, int subjectNbr, int priority, unsigned char flowLabel, int contentLength, char *content, int context)

Sends I<contentLength> bytes of data starting at I<content> as the content
of a message that is transmitted privately to the module in the continuum
identified by I<continuumNbr> (where 0 indicates "the local continuum") that
is identified by I<unitNbr> and I<moduleNbr> -- provided that I<module> is
in the domain of one of that module's invitations on I<subjectNbr>.
I<priority> and I<flowLabel>, if non-zero, override class of service as
requested in the invitation.  I<context> is an opaque "hint" to the receiving
module; its use is application-specific.

Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int ams_query(AmsModule module, int continuumNbr, int unitNbr, int moduleNbr, int subjectNbr, int priority, unsigned char flowLabel, int contentLength, char *content, int context, int term, AmsEvent *event)

Sends a message exactly is described above for ams_send(), but additionally
suspends the delivery and processing of newly received messages until either
(a) a "reply" message sent in response to this message is received or (b) the
time interval indicated by I<term>, in seconds, expires.  The event (reply or
timeout) that ends the suspension of processing is provided in I<event> (as
if from ams_get_event() when the function returns. 

If I<term> is AMS_BLOCKING then the timeout interval is indefinite; only
reception of a reply message enables the function to return.  If I<term> is
AMS_POLL then the function returns immediately, without waiting for a reply
message.

Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int ams_reply(AmsModule module, AmsEvent msg, int subjectNbr, int priority, unsigned char flowLabel, int contentLength, char *content)

Sends a message exactly is described above for ams_send(), except that the
destination of the message is the sender of the message identified by I<msg>
and the "context" value included in the message is the context that was
provided in I<msg>.  This message is identified as a "reply" message that
will end the processing suspension resulting from transmission of I<msg> if
that message was issued by means of ams_query() rather than ams_send().

Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int ams_announce(AmsModule module, int roleNbr, int continuumNbr, int unitNbr, int subjectNbr, int priority, unsigned char flowLabel, int contentLength, char *content, int context)

Sends a message exactly is described above for ams_send(), except that one
copy of the message is sent to every module in the domain of this function
(role, continuum, unit) whose invitation for messages on this subject is
itself characterized by a domain that includes the the sending module, rather
than to any specific module.  

Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int ams_get_event(AmsModule module, int term, AmsEvent *event)

Returns in I<event> the next event in the queue of AMS events pending delivery
to this module.  If the event queue is empty at the time this function is
called, processing is suspended until either an event is queued or the time
interval indicated by I<term>, in seconds, expires.  See ams_query() above
for the semantics of I<term>.  When the function returns on expiration of
I<term>, an event of type TIMEOUT_EVT is returned in I<event>.  Otherwise
the event will be of type AMS_MSG_EVT (indicating arrival of a message),
NOTICE_EVT (indicating a change in the configuration of the message space),
or USER_DEFINED_EVT (indicating that application code posted an event).

The nature of the event returned by ams_get_event() can be determined by
passing I<event> to ams_get_event_type() as described below.  Event type can
then be used to determine whether the information content of the event
must be obtained by calling ams_parse_msg(), ams_parse_notice(), or
ams_parse_user_event().  

In any case, the memory occupied by I<event> must be released after the
event object is no longer needed.  The ams_recycle_event() function is
invoked for this purpose.

Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int ams_get_event_type(AmsEvent event)

Returns the event type of I<event>, or -1 on any error.

=item int ams_parse_msg(AmsEvent event, int *continuumNbr, int *unitNbr, int *moduleNbr, int *subjectNbr, int *contentLength, char **content, int *context, AmsMsgType *msgType, int *priority, unsigned char *flowLabel);

Extracts all relevant information pertaining to the AMS message encapsulated
in I<event>, populating the indicated fields.  Must only be called when
the event type of I<event> is known to be AMS_MSG_EVT.

Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int ams_parse_notice(AmsEvent event, AmsStateType *state, AmsChangeType *change, int *unitNbr, int *moduleNbr, int *roleNbr, int *domainContinuumNbr, int *domainUnitNbr, int *subjectNbr, int *priority, unsigned char *flowLabel, AmsSequence *sequence, AmsDiligence *diligence)

Extracts all relevant information pertaining to the AMS configuration change
notice encapsulated in I<event>, populating the relevant fields.  Must only
be called when the event type of I<event> is known to be NOTICE_EVT.

Note that different fields will be populated depending on the nature of the
notice in I<event>.  I<state> will be set to AmsRegistrationState,
AmsInvitationState, or AmsSubscription state depending on whether the
notice pertains to a change in module registration, a change in invitations,
or a change in subscriptions.  I<change> will be set to AmsStateBegins or
AmsStateEnds depending on whether the notice pertains to the initiation or
termination of a registration, invitation, or subscription.

Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int ams_post_user_event(AmsModule module, int userEventCode, int userEventDataLength, char *userEventData, int priority)

Posts a "user event" whose content is the I<userEventDataLength> bytes of
data starting at I<userEventData>.  I<userEventCode> is an application-specific
value that is opaque to AMS.  I<priority> determines the event's position in
the queue of events pending delivery to this module; it may be any integer
in the range 0-15, where 0 indicates the greatest urgency.  (Note that user
events can be delivered ahead of all message reception events if necessary.)

Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int ams_parse_user_event(AmsEvent event, int *code, int *dataLength, char **data)

Extracts all relevant information pertaining to the user event encapsulated
in I<event>, populating the indicated fields.  Must only be called when
the event type of I<event> is known to be USER_DEFINED_EVT.

Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int ams_recycle_event(AmsEvent event)

Releases all memory occupied by I<event>.  Returns 0 on success, -1 on any
error.

=item int ams_set_event_mgr(AmsModule module, AmsEventMgt *rules)

Starts a background thread that processes events queued for this module,
handling each event in the manner indicated by I<rules>.  Returns 0 on
success, -1 on any error.

=item void ams_remove_event_mgr(AmsModule module)

Terminates the background thread established to process events queued for
this module.  Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int ams_get_module_nbr(AmsModule module)

Returns the module number assigned to this module upon registration, or -1
on any error.

=item int ams_get_unit_nbr(AmsModule module)

Returns the unit number assigned to the unit within which this module
registered, or -1 on any error.

=item Lyst ams_list_msgspaces(AmsModule module)

Returns a dynamically allocated linked list of all message spaces identified
in the MIB for this module, or -1 on any error.  See lyst(3) for operations
that can be performed on the returned linked list.

=item int ams_get_continuum_nbr()

Returns the continuum number assigned to the continuum within which this
module operates, or -1 on any error.

=item int ams_rams_net_is_tree(AmsModule module)

Returns 1 if the RAMS net for the venture in which this module is registered
is configured as a tree, 0 if that RAMS net is configured as a mesh, -1 on
any error.

=item int ams_continuum_is_neighbor(int continuumNbr)

Returns 1 if I<continuumNbr> identifies a continuum whose RAMS gateways
are immediate neighbors (within the applicable RAMS networks) of the
RAMS gateways in the local continuum.  Returns 0 otherwise.

=item char *ams_get_role_name(AmsModule module, int unitNbr, int moduleNbr)

Returns the name of the role in which the module identified by I<unitNbr> and
I<moduleNbr> registered, or NULL on any error.

=item int ams_subunit_of(AmsModule module, int argUnitNbr, int refUnitNbr)

Returns 1 if I<argUnitNbr> identifies a unit that is wholly contained within
the unit identified by I<refUnitNbr>, in the venture within which this
module is registered.  Returns 0 otherwise.

=item int ams_lookup_unit_nbr(AmsModule module, char *unitName)

Returns the number assigned to the unit identified by I<unitName>, in
the venture within which this module is registered, or -1 on any error.

=item int ams_lookup_role_nbr(AmsModule module, char *roleName)

Returns the number assigned to the role identified by I<roleName>, in
the venture within which this module is registered, or -1 on any error.

=item int ams_lookup_subject_nbr(AmsModule module, char *subjectName)

Returns the number assigned to the subject identified by I<subjectName>, in
the venture within which this module is registered, or -1 on any error.

=item int ams_lookup_continuum_nbr(AmsModule module, char *continuumName)

Returns the number of the continuum identified by I<continuumName>, or -1
on any error.

=item char *ams_lookup_unit_name(AmsModule module, int unitNbr)

Returns the name of the unit identified by I<unitNbr>, in
the venture within which this module is registered, or -1 on any error.

=item char *ams_lookup_role_name(AmsModule module, int roleNbr)

Returns the name of the role identified by I<roleNbr>, in
the venture within which this module is registered, or -1 on any error.

=item char *ams_lookup_subject_name(AmsModule module, int subjectNbr)

Returns the name of the subject identified by I<subjectNbr>, in
the venture within which this module is registered, or -1 on any error.

=item char *ams_lookup_continuum_name(AmsModule module, int continuumNbr)

Returns the name of the continuum identified by I<continuumNbr>, or -1
on any error.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

amsd(1), ramsgate(1), amsxml(5), amsrc(5)
