=head1 NAME

bputa - BP-based CFDP UT-layer adapter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bputa>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bputa> is a background "daemon" task that sends and receives CFDP PDUs
encapsulated in DTN bundles.

The task is spawned automatically by B<cfdpadmin> in response to the 's'
command that starts operation of the CFDP protocol; the text of the
command that is used to spawn the task must be provided
as a parameter to the 's' command.  The UT-layer daemon is
terminated by B<cfdpadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bputa> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<cfdpadmin> to restart B<bputa>.

=item "1"

B<bputa> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<cfdpadmin> to restart B<bputa>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item CFDP can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized BP protocol operations.

=item CFDP can't open own endpoint.

Most likely another bputa task is already running.  Use B<cfdpadmin> to
stop CFDP and restart.

=item CFDP can't get Bundle Protocol SAP.

Most likely a BP configuration problem.  Use B<bpadmin> to stop BP and restart.

=item bputa can't attach to CFDP.

B<cfdpadmin> has not yet initialized CFDP protocol operations.

=item bputa can't dequeue outbound CFDP PDU; terminating.

Possible system error.  Check ion.log for additional diagnostic messages.

=item bputa can't send PDU in bundle; terminating.

Possible system error.  Check ion.log for additional diagnostic messages.

=item bputa can't track PDU; terminating.

Possible system error.  Check ion.log for additional diagnostic messages.

=item bputa bundle reception failed.

Possible system error; reception thread terminates.  Check ion.log for
additional diagnostic messages.

=item bputa can't receive bundle ADU.

Possible system error; reception thread terminates.  Check ion.log for
additional diagnostic messages.

=item bputa can't handle bundle delivery.

Possible system error; reception thread terminates.  Check ion.log for
additional diagnostic messages.

=item bputa can't handle inbound PDU.

Possible system error; reception thread terminates.  Check ion.log for
additional diagnostic messages.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

cfdpadmin(1), bpadmin(1)
