=head1 NAME

cfdptest - CFDP test shell for ION

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cfdptest> [ I<commands_filename> ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<cfdptest> provides a mechanism for testing CFDP file transmission.  It can
be used in either scripted or interactive mode.  All bundles containing CFDP
PDUs are sent with custody transfer requested and with all bundle status
reporting disabled.

When scripted with I<commands_filename>, B<cfdptest> operates in response to
CFDP management commands contained in the provided commands file.  Each line
of text in the file is interpreted as a single command comprising several
tokens: a one-character command code and, in most cases, one or more command
arguments of one or more characters.  The commands configure and initiate
CFDP file transmission operations.

If no file is specified, B<cfdptest> instead offers the user an interactive
"shell" for command entry.  B<cfdptest> prints a prompt string (": ") to
stdout, accepts strings of text from stdin, and interprets each string as
a command.

The supported B<cfdptest> commands (whether interactive or scripted) are as
follows:

=over 4

=item B<?>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<h> command.

=item B<h>

An alternate form of the B<help> command.

=item B<z> [<number of seconds to pause>]

The B<pause> command.  When B<cfdptest> is running in interactive mode,
this command causes the console input processing thread to pause the
indicated number of seconds (defaulting to 1) before processing the next
command.  This is provided for use in test scripting.

=item B<d> <destination CFDP entity ID number>

The B<destination> command.  This command establishes the CFDP entity
to which the next file transmission operation will be directed.  CFDP entity
numbers in ION are, by convention, the same as BP node numbers.

=item B<f> <source file path name>

The B<from> command.  This command identifies the file that will be
transmitted when the next file transmission operation is commanded.

=item B<t> <destination file path name>

The B<to> command.  This command provides the name for the file that will be
created at the receiving entity when the next file transmission operation
is commanded.

=item B<l> <lifetime in seconds>

The B<time-to-live> command.  This command establishes the time-to-live for
all subsequently issued bundles containing CFDP PDUs.  If not specified, the
default value 86400 (1 day) is used.

=item B<p> <priority>

The B<priority> command.  This command establishes the priority (class of
service) for all subsequently issued bundles containing CFDP PDUs.  Valid
values are 0, 1, and 2.  If not specified, priority is 1.

=item B<o> <ordinal>

The B<ordinal> command.  This command establishes the "ordinal" (sub-priority
within priority 2) for all subsequently issued bundles containing CFDP PDUs.
Valid values are 0-254.  If not specified, ordinal is 0.

=item B<m> <mode>

The B<mode> command.  This command establishes the transmission mode
("best-effort" or assured) for all subsequently issued bundles containing
CFDP PDUs.  Valid values are 0 (assured, reliable, with reliability
provided by a reliable DTN convergence layer protocol), 1 (best-effort,
unreliable), and 2 (assured, reliable, but with reliability provided by BP
custody transfer).  If not specified, transmission mode is 0.

=item B<a> <latency in seconds>

The B<closure latency> command.  This command establishes the transaction
closure latency for all subsequent file transmission operations.  When it is
set to zero, the file transmission is "open loop" and the CFDP transaction
at the sending entity finishes when the EOF is sent.  Otherwise, the
receiving CFDP entity is being asked to send a "Finished" PDU back to the
sending CFDP entity when the transaction finishes at the receiving entity.
Normally the transaction finishes at the sending entity only when that
Finished PDU is received.  However, when I<closure latency> seconds elapse
following transmission of the EOF PDU prior to receipt of the Finished PDU,
the transaction finishes immediately with a Check Timer fault.

=item B<n> { 0 | 1 }

The B<segment metadata> command.  This command controls the insertion of
sample segment metadata -- a string representation of the current time --
in every file data segment PDU.  A value of 1 enables segment metadata
insertion, while a value of 0 disables it.

=item B<g> <srrflags>

The B<srrflags> command.  This command establishes the BP status reporting
that will be requested for all subsequently issued bundles containing
CFDP PDUs.  I<srrflags> must be a status reporting flags string as defined
for bptrace(1): a sequence of status report flags, separated by commas,
with no embedded whitespace.  Each status report flag must be one of the
following: rcv, ct, fwd, dlv, del.

=item B<c> <criticality>

The B<criticality> command.  This command establishes the criticality
for all subsequently issued bundles containing CFDP PDUs.  Valid values
are 0 (not critical) and 1 (critical).  If not specified, criticality is 0.

=item B<r> <action code nbr> <first path name> <second path name>

The B<filestore request> command.  This command adds a filestore request to
the metadata that will be issued when the next file transmission operation
is commanded.  Action code numbers are:

=over 4

=item 0 = create file

=item 1 = delete file

=item 2 = rename file

=item 3 = append file

=item 4 = replace file

=item 5 = create directory

=item 6 = remove directory

=item 7 = deny file

=item 8 = deny directory

=back

=item B<u> '<message text>'

The B<user message> command.  This command adds a user message to the
metadata that will be issued when the next file transmission operation
is commanded.

=item B<&>

The B<send> command.  This command initiates file transmission as configured
by the most recent preceding B<d>, B<f>, B<t>, and B<a> commands.

=item B<|>

The B<get> command.  This command causes a request for file transmission to
the local node, subject to the parameters provided by the most recent preceding
B<f>, B<t>, and B<a> commands, to be sent to the entity identified by the
most recent preceding B<d> command.

B<NOTE> that 'get' in CFDP is implemented very differently from 'send'.  The
'send' operation is a native element of the CFDP protocol. The 'get' operation
is implemented by sending to the responding entity a standardized sequence of
message-to-user messages in a Metadata PDU - the I<user application> at the
responding entity receives those messages and initiates a 'send' to accomplish
transmission of the file.  This means that 'send' can succeed even if no user
application is running at the remote node, but 'get' cannot.

=item B<^>

The B<cancel> command.  This command cancels the most recently initiated
file transmission.

=item B<%>

The B<suspend> command.  This command suspends the most recently initiated
file transmission.

=item B<$>

The B<resume> command.  This command resumes the most recently initiated
file transmission.

=item B<#>

The B<report> command.  This command reports on the most recently initiated
file transmission.

=item B<q>

The B<quit> command.  Terminates the cfdptest program.

=back

B<cfdptest> in interactive mode also spawns a CFDP event handling thread.  The
event thread receives CFDP service indications and simply prints lines of
text to stdout to announce them.

B<NOTE> that when B<cfdptest> runs in scripted mode it does B<not> spawn an
event handling thread, which makes it possible for the CFDP events queue to
grow indefinitely unless some other task consumes and reports on the events.
One simple solution is to run an interactive B<cfdptest> task in background,
simply to keep the event queue cleared, while scripted non-interactive
B<cfdptest> tasks are run in the foreground.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<cfdptest> has terminated.  Any problems encountered during operation
will be noted in the B<ion.log> log file.

=back

=head1 FILES

See above for details on valid I<commands_filename> commands.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Diagnostic messages produced by B<cfdptest> are written to the ION log
file I<ion.log>.

=over 4

=item Can't open command file...

The file identified by I<commands_filename> doesn't exist.

=item cfdptest can't initialize CFDP.

B<cfdpadmin> has not yet initialized CFDP operations.

=item Can't put FDU.

The attempt to initiate file transmission failed.  See the ION log for
additional diagnostic messages from the CFDP library.

=item Failed getting CFDP event.

The attempt to retrieve a CFDP service indication failed.  See the ION log for
additional diagnostic messages from the CFDP library.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

cfdpadmin(1), cfdp(3)
