=head1 NAME

tcputa - TCP/IP-based CFDP UT-layer adapter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<tcputa>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<tcputa> is a background "daemon" task that sends and receives CFDP PDUs
via a TCP/IP socket.

The task is spawned automatically by B<cfdpadmin> in response to the 's'
command that starts operation of the CFDP protocol; the text of the
command that is used to spawn the task must be provided
as a parameter to the 's' command.  The UT-layer daemon is
terminated by B<cfdpadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<tcputa> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<cfdpadmin> to restart B<tcputa>.

=item "1"

B<tcputa> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<cfdpadmin> to restart B<tcputa>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item tcputa can't attach to CFDP.

B<cfdpadmin> has not yet initialized CFDP protocol operations.

=item tcputa can't dequeue outbound CFDP PDU; terminating.

Possible system error.  Check ion.log for additional diagnostic messages.

=item tcputa can't track PDU; terminating.

Possible system error.  Check ion.log for additional diagnostic messages.

=item tcputa can't handle inbound PDU.

Possible system error; reception thread terminates.  Check ion.log for
additional diagnostic messages.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

cfdpadmin(1), bpadmin(1)
