=head1 NAME

ltpcounter - LTP reception test program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ltpcounter> I<client_ID> [I<max_nbr_of_bytes>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ltpcounter> uses LTP to receive service data units flagged with client
service number I<client_ID> from a remote B<ltpdriver> client service
process.  When the total number of bytes of client service data it has
received exceeds I<max_nbr_of_bytes>, it terminates and prints reception
and cancellation statistics.  If I<max_nbr_of_bytes> is omitted, the default
limit is 2 billion bytes.

While receiving data, B<ltpcounter> prints a 'v' character every 5 seconds
to indicate that it is still alive.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<ltpcounter> has terminated.  Any problems encountered during operation
will be noted in the B<ion.log> log file.

=item "1"

B<ltpcounter> was unable to start, because it could not attach to the LTP
protocol on the local node or could not open access to client service
I<clientId>.

In the former case, run B<ltpadmin> to start LTP and try again.

In the latter case, some other client service task has already opened
access to client service I<clientId>.  If no such task is currently running
(e.g., it crashed while holding the client service open), use B<ltpadmin> to
stop and restart the LTP protocol.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Diagnostic messages produced by B<ltpcounter> are written to the ION log
file I<ion.log>.

=over 4

=item ltpcounter can't initialize LTP.

B<ltpadmin> has not yet initialized LTP protocol operations.

=item ltpcounter can't open client access.

Another task has opened access to service client I<clientId> and has not yet
relinquished it.

=item Can't get LTP notice.

LTP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

ltpadmin(1), ltpdriver(1), ltp(3)
