=head1 NAME

ltpdriver - LTP transmission test program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ltpdriver> I<remoteEngineNbr> I<clientId> I<nbrOfCycles> I<greenLength> [I< totalLength>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ltpdriver> uses LTP to send I<nbrOfCycles> service data units of length
indicated by I<totalLength>, of which the trailing I<greenLength> bytes are
sent unreliably, to the B<ltpcounter> client service process for
client service number I<clientId> attached to the remote LTP engine
identified by I<remoteEngineNbr>.  If omitted, I<length> defaults to
60000.  If I<length> is 1, the sizes of the transmitted service data units
will be randomly selected multiples of 1024 in the range 1024 to 62464.

Whenever the size of the transmitted service data unit is less than or equal
to I<greenLength>, the entire SDU is sent unreliably.

When all copies of the file have been sent, B<ltpdriver> prints a performance
report.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<ltpdriver> has terminated.  Any problems encountered during operation
will be noted in the B<ion.log> log file.

=item "1"

B<ltpdriver> was unable to start, because it could not attach to the LTP
protocol on the local node.  Run B<ltpadmin> to start LTP, then try again.

=back

=head1 FILES

The service data units transmitted by B<ltpdriver> are sequences of text
obtained from a file in the current working directory named "ltpdriverAduFile",
which B<ltpdriver> creates automatically.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Diagnostic messages produced by B<ltpdriver> are written to the ION log
file I<ion.log>.

=over 4

=item ltpdriver can't initialize LTP.

B<ltpadmin> has not yet initialized LTP protocol operations.

=item Can't create ADU file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item Error writing to ADU file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item ltpdriver can't create file ref.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item ltpdriver can't create ZCO.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item ltpdriver can't send message.

LTP span to the remote engine has been stopped.

=item ltp_send failed.

LTP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

ltpadmin(1), ltpcounter(1), ltp(3)
