=head1 NAME

bprc - Bundle Protocol management commands file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Bundle Protocol management commands are passed to B<bpadmin> either in a file of
text lines or interactively at B<bpadmin>'s command prompt (:).  Commands
are interpreted line-by line, with exactly one command per line.  The formats
and effects of the Bundle Protocol management commands are described below.

=head1 GENERAL COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<?>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<h> command.

=item B<#>

Comment line.  Lines beginning with B<#> are not interpreted.

=item B<e> { 1 | 0 }

Echo control.  Setting echo to 1 causes all output printed by bpadmin to be
logged as well as sent to stdout.  Setting echo to 0 disables this behavior.

=item B<v> 

Version number.  Prints out the version of ION currently installed and the
crypto suite BP was compiled with.  HINT: combine with B<e 1> command to log
the version number at startup.

=item B<1>

The B<initialize> command.  Until this command is executed, Bundle Protocol
is not in operation on the local ION node and most I<bpadmin> commands will
fail.

=item B<r> 'I<command_text>'

The B<run> command.  This command will execute I<command_text> as if it
had been typed at a console prompt.  It is used to, for example, run
another administrative program.

=item B<s>

The B<start> command.  This command starts all schemes and all protocols
on the local node.

=item B<m heapmax> I<max_database_heap_per_acquisition>

The B<manage heap for bundle acquisition> command.  This command declares
the maximum number of bytes of SDR heap space that will be occupied by any
single bundle acquisition activity (nominally the acquisition of a single
bundle, but this is at the discretion of the convergence-layer input task).
All data acquired in excess of this limit will be written to a temporary file
pending extraction and dispatching of the acquired bundle or bundles.  Default
is the minimum allowed value (560 bytes), which is the approximate size of a
ZCO file reference object; this is the minimum SDR heap space occupancy in the
event that all acquisition is into a file.

=item B<m maxcount> I<max_value_of_bundle_ID_sequence_nbr>

The B<manage maximum bundle ID sequence number> command.  This command sets
the maximum value that will be assigned as the sequence number in a bundle ID
for any bundle sourced at a node that lacks a synchronized clock (such that
the creation time in the ID of every locally sourced bundle is always zero).
The default value is -1, i.e., unlimited.

=item B<x>

The B<stop> command.  This command stops all schemes and all protocols
on the local node.

=item B<w> { 0 | 1 | I<activity_spec> }

The B<BP watch> command.  This command enables and disables production of
a continuous stream of user-selected Bundle Protocol activity indication
characters.  A watch parameter of "1" selects
all BP activity indication characters; "0" de-selects all BP activity
indication characters; any other I<activity_spec> such as "acz~" selects
all activity indication characters in the string, de-selecting all
others.  BP will print each selected activity indication character to
B<stdout> every time a processing event of the associated type occurs:

B<a>	new bundle is queued for forwarding

B<b>	bundle is queued for transmission

B<c>	bundle is popped from its transmission queue

B<y>	bundle is accepted upon arrival

B<z>	bundle is queued for delivery to an application

B<~>	bundle is abandoned (discarded) on attempt to forward it

B<!>	bundle is destroyed due to TTL expiration

B<#>	bundle is queued for re-forwarding due to CL protocol failure

B<j>	bundle is placed in "limbo" for possible future re-forwarding

B<k>	bundle is removed from "limbo" and queued for re-forwarding

Note that a slightly amended interpretation should be applied to watch
characters printed in the course of multicast transmission.  The '~'
character, meaning Abandoned (node did not forward this bundle), is printed
by a node that is a leaf of the multicast tree, i.e., a node with no children;
it cannot forward the bundle because it's got nobody to forward it to.  The
'!' character, meaning Destroyed (node destroyed a physical copy of a bundle),
is printed by a node that has forwarded copies of the bundle to all of its
children and no longer needs to retain the original - so it does an immediate
permanent bundle destruction just as if the bundle's time to live had expired.
Neither condition is anomalous.

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<?> command.

=back

=head1 SCHEME COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a scheme> I<scheme_name> 'I<forwarder_command>' 'I<admin_app_command>'

The B<add scheme> command.  This command declares an endpoint naming
"scheme" for use in endpoint IDs, which are structured as URIs:
I<scheme_name>:I<scheme-specific_part>.  I<forwarder_command> will be
executed when the scheme is started on this node, to initiate operation
of a forwarding daemon for this scheme.  I<admin_app_command> will also
be executed when the scheme is started on this node, to initiate
operation of a daemon that opens a custodian endpoint identified within
this scheme so that it can receive and process custody signals and bundle
status reports.

=item B<c scheme> I<scheme_name> 'I<forwarder_command>' 'I<admin_app_command>'

The B<change scheme> command.  This command sets the indicated scheme's 
I<forwarder_command> and I<admin_app_command> to the strings provided
as arguments.

=item B<d scheme> I<scheme_name>

The B<delete scheme> command.  This command deletes the scheme identified
by I<scheme_name>.  The command will fail if any bundles identified in
this scheme are pending forwarding, transmission, or delivery.

=item B<i scheme> I<scheme_name>

This command will print information (number and commands) about
the endpoint naming scheme identified by I<scheme_name>.

=item B<l scheme>

This command lists all declared endpoint naming schemes.

=item B<s scheme> I<scheme_name>

The B<start scheme> command.  This command starts the forwarder and
administrative endpoint tasks for the indicated scheme task on the local node.

=item B<x scheme> I<scheme_name>

The B<stop scheme> command.  This command stops the forwarder and
administrative endpoint tasks for the indicated scheme task on the local node.

=back

=head1 ENDPOINT COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a endpoint> I<endpoint_ID> { q | x } ['I<recv_script>']

The B<add endpoint> command.  This command establishes a DTN endpoint named
I<endpoint_ID> on the local node.  The remaining parameters indicate
what is to be done when bundles destined for this endpoint arrive at a time
when no application has got the endpoint open for bundle reception.  If 'x',
then such bundles are to be discarded silently and immediately.  If 'q',
then such bundles are to be enqueued for later delivery and, if I<recv_script>
is provided, I<recv_script> is to be executed.

=item B<c endpoint> I<endpoint_ID> { q | x } ['I<recv_script>']

The B<change endpoint> command.  This command changes the action that is
to be taken when bundles destined for this endpoint arrive at a time
when no application has got the endpoint open for bundle reception, as
described above.

=item B<d endpoint> I<endpoint_ID>

The B<delete endpoint> command.  This command deletes the endpoint identified
by I<endpoint_ID>.  The command will fail if any bundles are currently
pending delivery to this endpoint.

=item B<i endpoint> I<endpoint_ID>

This command will print information (disposition and script) about
the endpoint identified by I<endpoint_ID>.

=item B<l endpoint>

This command lists all local endpoints, regardless of scheme name.

=back

=head1 PROTOCOL COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a protocol> I<protocol_name> I<payload_bytes_per_frame> I<overhead_bytes_per_frame> [I<protocol_class>]

The B<add protocol> command.  This command establishes access to the named
convergence layer protocol at the local node.  The I<payload_bytes_per_frame>
and I<overhead_bytes_per_frame> arguments are used in calculating the
estimated transmission capacity consumption of each bundle, to aid in
route computation and congestion forecasting.

The optional I<protocol_class> argument indicates the reliability of the
protocol.  The value 1 indicates that the protocol natively supports bundle
streaming; currently the only protocol in class 1 is BSSP.  The value 2
indicates that the protocol performs no retransmission; an example is UDP.
The value 8 (which is the default) indicates that the protocol detects data
loss and automatically retransmits data accordingly; an example is TCP.
Protocol class need not be specified when I<protocol_name> is bssp, udp,
tcp, stcp, brss, brsc, or ltp, as the protocol classes for these well-known
protocols are hard-coded in ION.

=item B<d protocol> I<protocol_name>

The B<delete protocol> command.  This command deletes the convergence layer
protocol identified by I<protocol_name>.  The command will fail if any ducts
are still locally declared for this protocol.

=item B<i protocol> I<protocol_name>

This command will print information about the convergence layer protocol
identified by I<protocol_name>.

=item B<l protocol>

This command lists all convergence layer protocols that can currently
be utilized at the local node.

=item B<s protocol> I<protocol_name>

The B<start protocol> command.  This command starts all induct and outduct
tasks for inducts and outducts that have been defined for the indicated
CL protocol on the local node.

=item B<x protocol> I<protocol_name>

The B<stop protocol> command.  This command stops all induct and outduct
tasks for inducts and outducts that have been defined for the indicated
CL protocol on the local node.

=back

=head1 INDUCT COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a induct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name> 'I<CLI_command>'

The B<add induct> command.  This command establishes a "duct" for reception
of bundles via the indicated CL protocol.  The duct's data acquisition
structure is used and populated by the "induct" task whose operation is
initiated by I<CLI_command> at the time the duct is started.

=item B<c induct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name> 'I<CLI_command>'

The B<change induct> command.  This command changes the command that is
used to initiate operation of the induct task for the indicated duct.

=item B<d induct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

The B<delete induct> command.  This command deletes the induct identified
by I<protocol_name> and I<duct_name>.  The command will fail if any bundles
are currently pending acquisition via this induct.

=item B<i induct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

This command will print information (the CLI command) about
the induct identified by I<protocol_name> and I<duct_name>.

=item B<l induct> [I<protocol_name>]

If I<protocol_name> is specified, this command lists all inducts
established locally for the indicated CL protocol.  Otherwise it lists
all locally established inducts, regardless of protocol.

=item B<s induct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

The B<start induct> command.  This command starts the indicated induct 
task as defined for the indicated CL protocol on the local node.

=item B<x induct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

The B<stop induct> command.  This command stops the indicated induct 
task as defined for the indicated CL protocol on the local node.

=back

=head1 OUTDUCT COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a outduct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name> 'I<CLO_command>' [I<max_payload_length>]

The B<add outduct> command.  This command establishes a "duct" for transmission
of bundles via the indicated CL protocol.  The duct's data transmission
structure is serviced by the "outduct" task whose operation is
initiated by I<CLO_command> at the time the duct is started.  A value of
zero for I<max_payload_length> indicates that bundles of any size can be
accommodated; this is the default.

=item B<c outduct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name> 'I<CLO_command>' [I<max_payload_length>]

The B<change outduct> command.  This command sets new values for the indicated
duct's payload size limit and the command that is used to initiate operation of
the outduct task for this duct.

=item B<d outduct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

The B<delete outduct> command.  This command deletes the outduct identified
by I<protocol_name> and I<duct_name>.  The command will fail if any bundles
are currently pending transmission via this outduct.

=item B<i outduct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

This command will print information (the CLO command) about
the outduct identified by I<protocol_name> and I<duct_name>.

=item B<l outduct> [I<protocol_name>]

If I<protocol_name> is specified, this command lists all outducts
established locally for the indicated CL protocol.  Otherwise it lists
all locally established outducts, regardless of protocol.

=item B<s outduct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

The B<start outduct> command.  This command starts the indicated outduct 
task as defined for the indicated CL protocol on the local node.

=item B<x outduct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

The B<stop outduct> command.  This command stops the indicated outduct 
task as defined for the indicated CL protocol on the local node.

=back

=head1 EGRESS PLAN COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a plan> I<endpoint_name> [I<transmission_rate>]

The B<add plan> command.  This command establishes an egress plan governing
transmission to the neighboring node[s] identified by I<endpoint_name>.  The
plan is functionally enacted by a bpclm(1) daemon dedicated to managing
bundles queued for transmission to the indicated neighboring node[s].

NOTE that these "plan" commands supersede and generalize the egress plan
commands documented in the ipnrc(5) and dtn2rc(5) man pages, which are
retained for backward compatibility.  B<The syntax of the egress plan commands
consumed by bpadmin is DIFFERENT from that of the commands consumed by
ipnadmin and dtn2admin.>  The I<endpoint_name> identifying
an egress plan is normally the node ID for a single node but may instead
be "wild-carded".  That is, when the last character of an endpoint name
ID is either '*' or '~' (these two wild-card characters are equivalent
for this purpose), the plan applies to all nodes whose IDs are identical
to the wild-carded node name up to the wild-card character.  For example,
a bundle whose destination EID name is "dtn://foghorn" would be routed
by plans citing the following node IDs: "dtn://foghorn", "dtn://fogh*",
"dtn://fog~", "//*".  When multiple plans are all applicable to the same
destination EID, the one citing the longest (i.e., most narrowly targeted)
node ID will be applied.

An egress plan may direct that bundles queued for transmission to the
node[s] matching I<endpoint_name> be transmitted using one of the
convergence-layer protocol "outducts" that have been attached to the
plan, or instead that those bundles be routed to some other "gateway"
endpoint (resulting in transmission according to some other egress
plan).  In the event that both a gateway endpoint and one or more
outducts have been declared for a given plan, the gateway declaration prevails.

A I<transmission_rate> may be asserted for an egress plan; this rate is
used as the basis for transmission rate control in the absence of applicable
contacts (in the node's contact plan, as per ionrc(5)).  A transmission
rate of zero (absent applicable contacts) disables rate control completely;
this is the default.

=item B<c plan> I<endpoint_name> [I<transmission_rate>]

The B<change plan> command.  This command sets a new value for the indicated
plan's transmission rate.

=item B<d plan> I<endpoint_name>

The B<delete plan> command.  This command deletes the outduct identified
by I<endpoint_name>.  The command will fail if any bundles are currently
pending transmission per this plan.

=item B<i plan> I<endpoint_name>

This command will print information (the transmission rate) about
the plan identified by I<endpoint_name>.

=item B<l plan>

This command lists all locally established egress plans.

=item B<s plan> I<endpoint_name>

The B<start plan> command.  This command starts the bpclm(1) task for
the indicated egress plan.

=item B<x plan> I<endpoint_name>

The B<stop plan> command.  This command stops the bpclm(1) task for
the indicated egress plan. 

=item B<b plan> I<endpoint_name>

The B<block plan> command.  This command disables transmission of bundles
queued for transmission to the indicated node and reforwards all non-critical
bundles currently queued for transmission to this node.  This may result in
some or all of these bundles being enqueued for transmission (actually just
retention) to the pseudo-node "limbo".

=item B<u plan> I<endpoint_name>

The B<unblock plan> command.  This command re-enables transmission of
bundles to the indicated node and reforwards all bundles in "limbo"
in the hope that the unblocking of this egress plan will enable some of them
to be transmitted.

=item B<g plan> I<endpoint_name> I<gateway_endpoint_name>

The B<declare gateway> command.  This command declares the name of the
endpoint to which bundles queued for transmission to the node[s]
identified by I<endpoint_name> must be re-routed.  Declaring
I<gateway_endpoint_name> to be the zero-length string "''" disables
re-routing: bundles will instead be transmitted using the plan's attached
convergence-layer protocol outduct[s].

=item B<a planduct> I<endpoint_name> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

The B<attach outduct> command.  This command declares that the indicated
convergence-layer protocol outduct is now a viable device for transmitting
bundles to the node[s] identified by I<endpoint_name>.

=item B<d planduct> I<protocol_name> I<duct_name>

The B<detach outduct> command.  This command declares that the indicated
convergence-layer protocol outduct is no longer a viable device for
transmitting bundles to the node[s] to which it is currently assigned.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item a scheme ipn 'ipnfw' 'ipnadminep'

Declares the "ipn" scheme on the local node.

=item a protocol udp 1400 100 16384

Establishes access to the "udp" convergence layer protocol on the local
node, estimating the number of payload bytes per ultimate (lowest-layer)
frame to be 1400 with 100 bytes of total overhead (BP, UDP, IP, AOS) per
lowest-layer frame, and setting the default nominal data rate to be 16384
bytes per second.

=item r 'ipnadmin flyby.ipnrc'

Runs the administrative program I<ipnadmin> from within I<bpadmin>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), ipnadmin(1), dtn2admin(1)
