=head1 NAME

petition.log - Remote AMS petition log

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Remote AMS daemon B<ramsgate> records all "petitions" (requests for data
on behalf of AMS modules in other continua) in a file named B<petition.log>.
At startup, the B<ramsgate> daemon automatically reads and processes all
petitions in the B<petition.log> file just as if they were received in real
time, to re-establish the petition state that was in effect at the time the
B<ramsgate> daemon shut down.  Note that this means that you can cause
petitions to be, in effect, "pre-received" by simply editing this file
prior to startup.  This can be an especially effective way to configure a
RAMS network in which long signal propagation times would otherwise retard
real-time petitioning and thus delay the onset of fully functional message
exchange.

Entries in B<petition.log> are simple ASCII text lines, with parameters
separated by spaces. Each line of B<petition.log> has the following parameters:

=over 4

=item protocolId

This is a number that identifies the RAMS network protocol characterizing
the network on which the petition was received: 1 == DTN Bundle Protocol, 2 = UDP.

=item gatewayID

This is a string that identifies the remote RAMS gateway node that issued
this petition.

=item controlCode

This is a number that indicates whether the petition described by this line
is one that is being asserted (2) or canceled (3).

=item subject

A number that identifies the subject of the traffic to which the petition
pertains.

=item continuumNumber

Identifies the continuum for the domain of the petition.

=item unitNumber

Identifies the unit for the domain of the petition.

=item roleNumber

Identifies the role for the domain of the petition.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

ramsgate(1), ams(3)
