=head1 NAME

bss - Bundle Streaming Service library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    #include "bss.h"

    typedef int (*RTBHandler)(time_t time, unsigned long count, char *buffer, int bufLength);

    [see description for available functions]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The BSS library supports the streaming of data over delay-tolerant
networking (DTN) bundles.  The intent of the library is to enable applications
that pass streaming data received in transmission time order (i.e., without
time regressions) to an application-specific "display" function -- notionally
for immediate real-time display -- but to store B<all> received data (including
out-of-order data) in a private database for playback under user control.  The
reception and real-time display of in-order data is performed by a background
thread, leaving the application's main (foreground) thread free to respond to
user commands controlling playback or other application-specific functions.

The application-specific "display" function invoked by the background thread
must conform to the RTBHandler type definition.  It must return 0 on success,
-1 on any error that should terminate the background thread.  Only on return
from this function will the background thread proceed to acquire the next BSS
payload.

All data acquired by the BSS background thread is written to a BSS database
comprising three files: table, list, and data.  The name of the database
is the root name that is common to the three files, e.g., I<db3>.tbl,
I<db3>.lst, I<db3>.dat would be the three files making up the I<db3> BSS
database.  All three files of the selected BSS database must reside in the
same directory of the file system.

Several replay navigation functions in the BSS library require that the
application provide a navigation state structure of type bssNav as defined
in the bss.h header file.  The application is not reponsible for populating
this structure; it's strictly for the private use of the BSS library.

=over 4

=item int bssOpen(char *bssName, char *path, char *eid)

Opens access to a BSS database, to enable data playback.  I<bssName>
identifies the specific BSS database that is to be opened.  I<path> identifies
the directory in which the database resides.  I<eid> is ignored.  On any
failure, returns -1.  On success, returns zero.

=item int bssStart(char *bssName, char *path, char *eid, char *buffer, int bufLen, RTBHandler handler)

Starts a BSS data acquisition background thread.  I<bssName> identifies the
BSS database into which data will be acquired.  I<path> identifies the
directory in which that database resides.  I<eid> is used to open the BP
endpoint at which the delivered BSS bundle payload contents will be
acquired.  I<buffer> identifies a data acquisition buffer, which must be
provided by the application, and I<bufLen> indicates the length of that
buffer; received bundle payloads in excess of this length will be discarded.

I<handler> identifies the display function to which each in-order bundle
payload will be passed.  The I<time> and I<count> parameters passed to this
function identify the received bundle, indicating the bundle's creation
timestamp time (in seconds) and counter value.  The I<buffer> and I<bufLength>
parameters indicate the location into which the bundle's payload was
acquired and the length of the acquired payload.  I<handler> must return -1 on
any unrecoverable system error, 0 otherwise.  A return value of -1 from
I<handler> will terminate the BSS data acquisition background thread.

On any failure, returns -1.  On success, returns zero.

=item int bssRun(char *bssName, char *path, char *eid, char *buffer, int bufLen, RTBHandler handler)

A convenience function that performs both bssOpen() and bssStart().  On any
failure, returns -1.  On success, returns zero.

=item void bssClose()

Terminates data playback access to the most recently opened BSS database.

=item void bssStop()

Terminates the most recently initiated BSS data acquisition background thread.

=item void bssExit()

A convenience function that performs both bssClose() and bssStop().

=item long bssRead(bssNav nav, char *data, int dataLen)

Copies the data at the current playback position in the database, as indicated
by I<nav>, into I<data>; if the length of the data is in excess of I<dataLen>
then an error condition is asserted (i.e., -1 is returned).  Note that bssRead()
cannot be successfully called until I<nav> has been populated, nominally by
a preceding call to bssSeek(), bssNext(), or bssPrev().  Returns the length
of data read, or -1 on any error.

=item long bssSeek(bssNav *nav, time_t time, time_t *curTime, unsigned long *count)

Sets the current playback position in the database, in I<nav>, to the data
received in the bundle with the earliest creation time that was greater than
or equal to I<time>.  Populates I<nav> and also returns the creation time and
bundle ID count of that bundle in I<curTime> and I<count>.  Returns the length
of data at this location, or -1 on any error.

=item long bssSeek_read(bssNav *nav, time_t time, time_t *curTime, unsigned long *count, char *data, int dataLen)

A convenience function that performs bssSeek() followed by an immediate
bssRead() to return the data at the new playback position.  Returns the length
of data read, or -1 on any error.

=item long bssNext(bssNav *nav, time_t *curTime, unsigned long *count)

Sets the playback position in the database, in I<nav>, to the data received
in the bundle with the earliest creation time and ID count greater than that
of the bundle at the current playback position.  Populates I<nav> and also
returns the creation time and bundle ID count of that bundle in I<curTime>
and I<count>.  Returns the length of data at this location (if any),
-2 on reaching end of list, or -1 on any error.

=item long bssNext_read(bssNav *nav, time_t *curTime, unsigned long *count, char *data, int dataLen)

A convenience function that performs bssNext() followed by an immediate
bssRead() to return the data at the new playback position.  Returns the
length of data read, -2 on reaching end of list, or -1 on any error.

=item long bssPrev(bssNav *nav, time_t *curTime, unsigned long *count)

Sets the playback position in the database, in I<nav>, to the data received
in the bundle with the latest creation time and ID count earlier than that
of the bundle at the current playback position.  Populates I<nav> and also
returns the creation time and bundle ID count of that bundle in I<curTime>
and I<count>.  Returns the length of data at this location (if any), -2 on
reaching end of list, or -1 on any error.

=item long bssPrev_read(bssNav *nav, time_t *curTime, unsigned long *count, char *data, int dataLen)

A convenience function that performs bssPrev() followed by an immediate
bssRead() to return the data at the new playback position.  Returns the
length of data read, -2 on reaching end of list, or -1 on any error.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

bp(3)
