=head1 NAME

bibeadmin - bundle-in-bundle encapsulation database administration interface

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bibeadmin> [ I<commands_filename> ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bibeadmin> configures the local ION node's database of parameters governing
the forwarding of BIBE PDUs to specified remote nodes.

B<bibeadmin> operates in response to BIBE configuration commands found
in the file I<commands_filename>, if provided; if not, B<bibeadmin> prints
a simple prompt (:) so that the user may type commands
directly into standard input.

The format of commands for I<commands_filename> can be queried from B<bibeadmin>
with the 'h' or '?' commands at the prompt.  The commands are documented in
biberc(5).

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"
Successful completion of BIBE administration.

=item "1"
Unsuccessful completion of BIBE administration, due to inability to
attach to the Bundle Protocol system or to initialize the BIBE database.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item bibeadmin

Enter interactive BIBE configuration command entry mode.

=item bibeadmin host1.biberc

Execute all configuration commands in I<host1.biberc>, then terminate
immediately.

=back

=head1 FILES

See biberc(5) for details of the BIBE configuration commands.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

B<Note>: all ION administration utilities expect source file input to be
lines of ASCII text that are NL-delimited.  If you edit the biberc file on
a Windows machine, be sure to B<use dos2unix to convert it to Unix text format>
before presenting it to B<bibeadmin>.  Otherwise B<bibeadmin> will detect syntax
errors and will not function satisfactorily.

The following diagnostics may be issued to the logfile ion.log:

=over 4

=item bibeadmin can't attach to BP.

Bundle Protocol has not been initialized on this computer.  You need to run
bpadmin(1) first.

=item bibeadmin can't initialize routing database.

There is no SDR data store for I<bibeadmin> to use.  Please run ionadmin(1) to
start the local ION node.

=item Can't open command file...

The I<commands_filename> specified in the command line doesn't exist.

=back

Various errors that don't cause B<bibeadmin> to fail but are noted in the
B<ion.log> log file may be caused by improperly formatted commands
given at the prompt or in the I<commands_filename> file.
Please see biberc(5) for details.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bibeclo(1), biberc(5)
