=head1 NAME

bibeclo - BP convergence layer output task using bundle-in-bundle encapsulation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bibeclo> I<peer_EID> I<destination_EID>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bibeclo> is a background "daemon" task that extracts bundles from the
queues of bundles destined for I<destination_EID> that are ready for
transmission via bundle-in-bundle encapsulation (BIBE) to I<peer_EID>,
encapsulates them in BP administrative records of (non-standard) record type
7 (BP_BIBE_PDU), and sends those administrative records in encapsulating
bundles destined for I<peer_EID>.  The forwarding of encapsulated bundles
for which custodial acknowledgment is requested causes B<bibeclo> to post
custodial re-forwarding timers to the node's timeline.  Parameters governing
the forwarding of BIBE PDUs to I<peer_EID> are stipulated in the corresponding
BIBE convergence-layer adapter (B<bcla>) structure residing in the BIBE
database, as managed by B<bibeadmin>.

The receiving node is expected to process received BIBE PDUs by simply
dispatching the encapsulated bundles - whose destination is the node
identified by I<destination_EID> - as if they had been received from
neighboring nodes in the normal course of operations; BIBE PDUs for which
custodial acknowledgment was requested cause the received bundles to be
noted in custody signals that are being aggregated by the receiving node.

B<bibeclo> additionally sends aggregated custody signals in BP administrative
records of (non-standard) record type 8 (BP_BIBE_SIGNAL) as the deadlines
for custody signal transmission arrive.

Note that the reception and processing of both encapsulated bundles and
custody signals is performed by the scheme-specific administration endpoint
daemon(s) at the receiving nodes.  Reception of a custody signal terminates
the custodial re-forwarding timers for all bundles acknowledged in that signal;
the re-forwarding of bundles upon custodial re-forwarding timer expiration is
initiated by the B<bpclock> daemon.

B<bibeclo> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's'
(START) command that starts operation of the Bundle Protocol, and it is
terminated by B<bpadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.  B<bibeclo>
can also be spawned and terminated in response to START and STOP commands
that pertain specifically to the BIBE convergence layer protocol.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bibeclo> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bpadmin> to restart B<bibeclo>.

=item "1"

B<bibeclo> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart B<bibeclo>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item bibeclo can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item No such bibe outduct.

No BIBE outduct with duct name I<destination_EID> exists.  Use B<bpadmin>
to stop the BIBE convergence-layer protocol, add the outduct, and then
restart the BIBE protocol.

=item No such bcla.

No bcla structure for the node identified by I<peer_EID> has been added to
the BP database.  Use B<bpadmin> to stop the BIBE convergence-layer protocol,
use B<bibeadmin> to add the bcla, and then use B<bpadmin> to restart the
BIBE protocol.

=item CLO task is already started for this duct.

Redundant initiation of B<bibeclo>.

=item Can't dequeue bundle.

BIBE outduct closed deleted or other system error.  Check ION log; correct
the problem and restart BIBE.

=item [i] bibeclo outduct closed.

Nominal shutdown message.

=item Can't prepend header; CLO stopping.

System error.  Check ION log; correct the problem and restart BIBE.

=item Can't destroy old ZCO; CLO stopping.

System error.  Check ION log; correct the problem and restart BIBE.

=item Can't get outbound space for BPDU.

System error.  Check ION log; correct the problem and restart BIBE.

=item Can't send encapsulated bundle.

System error.  Check ION log; correct the problem and restart BIBE.

=item Can't track bundle.

System error.  Check ION log; correct the problem and restart BIBE.

=item [!] Encapsulated bundle not sent.

Malformed bundle issuance request, which might be a software error.  Contact
technical support.

=item Can't release ZCO; CLO stopping.

System error.  Check ION log; correct the problem and restart BIBE.

=item [i] bibeclo duct has ended.

Nominal shutdown message.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

biberc(5), bibeadmin(1)
