=head1 NAME

bpadmin - ION Bundle Protocol (BP) administration interface

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bpadmin> [ I<commands_filename> | . ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bpadmin> configures, starts, manages, and stops bundle protocol operations
for the local ION node.
	
It operates in response to BP configuration commands found in the file
I<commands_filename>, if provided; if not, B<bpadmin> prints
a simple prompt (:) so that the user may type commands
directly into standard input.  If I<commands_filename> is a period (.), the
effect is the same as if a command file containing the single command 'x'
were passed to B<bpadmin> -- that is, the ION node's I<bpclock> task, 
forwarder tasks, and convergence layer adapter tasks are stopped.

The format of commands for I<commands_filename> can be queried from B<bpadmin>
with the 'h' or '?' commands at the prompt.  The commands are documented in
bprc(5).

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"
Successful completion of BP administration.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item bpadmin

Enter interactive BP configuration command entry mode.

=item bpadmin host1.bp

Execute all configuration commands in I<host1.bp>, then terminate immediately.

=item bpadmin .

Stop all bundle protocol operations on the local node.

=back

=head1 FILES

See bprc(5) for details of the BP configuration commands.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

B<Note>: all ION administration utilities expect source file input to be
lines of ASCII text that are NL-delimited.  If you edit the bprc file on
a Windows machine, be sure to B<use dos2unix to convert it to Unix text format>
before presenting it to B<bpadmin>.  Otherwise B<bpadmin> will detect syntax
errors and will not function satisfactorily.

The following diagnostics may be issued to the logfile ion.log:

=over 4

=item ION can't set custodian EID information.

The I<custodial_endpoint_id> specified in the BP initialization ('1')
command is malformed.  Remember that the format for this argument is 
ipn:I<element_number>.0 and that the final 0 is required, as 
custodial/administration service is always service 0.  Additional detail
for this error is provided if one of the following other errors is present:

=over 4

Malformed EID.

Malformed custodian EID.

=back

=item bpadmin can't attach to ION.

There is no SDR data store for I<bpadmin> to use.  You should run ionadmin(1)
first, to set up an SDR data store for ION.

=item Can't open command file...

The I<commands_filename> specified in the command line doesn't exist.

=back

Various errors that don't cause B<bpadmin> to fail but are noted in the
B<ion.log> log file may be caused by improperly formatted commands
given at the prompt or in the I<commands_filename> file.
Please see bprc(5) for details.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

ionadmin(1), bprc(5), ipnadmin(1), ipnrc(5), dtnadmin(1), dtnrc(5)
