=head1 NAME

bpcancel - Bundle Protocol (BP) bundle cancellation utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bpcancel> I<source_EID> I<creation_seconds> [I<creation_count> [I<fragment_offset> [I<fragment_length>]]]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bpcancel> attempts to locate the bundle identified by the command-line
parameter values and cancel transmission of this bundle.  Bundles for which
multiple copies have been queued for transmission can't be canceled, because
one or more of those copies might already have been transmitted.  Transmission
of a bundle that has never been cloned and that is still in local bundle
storage is cancelled by simulation of an immediate time-to-live expiration.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bpcancel> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item Can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized BP operations.

=item bpcancel failed finding bundle.

The attempt to locate the subject bundle failed due to some serious system
error.  It will probably be necessary to terminate and re-initialize the
local ION node.

=item bpcancel failed destroying bundle.

Probably an unrecoverable database error, in which case the local ION
node must be terminated and re-initialized.

=item bpcancel failed.

Probably an unrecoverable database error, in which case the local ION
node must be terminated and re-initialized.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bplist(1)
