=head1 NAME

bpecho - Bundle Protocol reception test program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bpecho> I<ownEndpointId>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bpecho> uses Bundle Protocol to receive application data units
from a remote B<bpdriver> application task.  In response to each
received application data unit it sends back an "echo" application data
unit of length 2, the NULL-terminated string "x".

B<bpecho> terminates upon receiving the SIGQUIT signal, i.e., ^C from the
keyboard.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bpecho> has terminated normally.  Any problems encountered during operation
will be noted in the B<ion.log> log file.

=item "1"

B<bpecho> has terminated due to a BP reception failure.  Details should be
noted in the B<ion.log> log file.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Diagnostic messages produced by B<bpecho> are written to the ION log
file I<ion.log>.

=over 4

=item Can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item Can't open own endpoint.

Another application has already opened I<ownEndpointId>.  Terminate that
application and rerun.

=item bpecho bundle reception failed.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item No space for ZCO extent.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item Can't create ZCO.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item bpecho can't send echo bundle.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bpdriver(1), bpcounter(1), bp(3)
