=head1 NAME

bplist - Bundle Protocol (BP) utility for listing queued bundles

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bplist> [{count | detail} [I<destination_EID>[/I<priority>]]]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bplist> is a utility program that reports on bundles that currently
reside in the local node, as identified by entries in the local bundle
agent's "timeline" list.

Either a count of bundles or a detailed list of bundles (noting primary block
information together with hex and ASCII dumps of the payload and all
extension blocks, in expiration-time sequence) may be requested.

Either all bundles or just a subset of bundles - restricted to bundles
for a single destination endpoint, or to bundles of a given level of priority
that are all destined for some specified endpoint - may be included in the
report.

By default, B<bplist> prints a detailed list of all bundles residing in
the local node.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bplist> terminated, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.

=item "1"

B<bplist> was unable to attach to Bundle Protocol operations, probably because
B<bpadmin> has not yet been run.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item Can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized BP operations.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpclock(1)
