=head1 NAME

bprecvtest - Bundle Protocol (BP) file-based throughput testing utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bprecvtest> I<own_endpoint_ID> [I<max_files>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<NOTE: THIS UTILITY IS FOR TESTING PURPOSES ONLY>

B<bprecvtest> is a modified variant of B<bprecvfile> and is intended 
to serve as the counterpart to B<bpsendtest>. 
It uses bp_receive() to receive bundles containing file content. 
The content of each bundle is simply discarded upon full reception 
after counting the size of the recieved data.

If a I<max_files> value of N (where N > 0) is provided, the program will
terminate automatically upon completing its Nth file reception.  Otherwise
it will run indefinitely; use ^C to terminate the program.

Upon termination, the program will display the number of bytes recieved in 
files, the time between the reception of the pilot bundle and the final 
completed bundle, and the calculated throughput.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bprecvtest> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item Can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized BP operations.

=item Can't open own endpoint.

Another BP application task currently has I<own_endpoint_ID> open for
bundle origination and reception.  Try again after that task has terminated.
If no such task exists, it may have crashed while still holding the endpoint
open; the easiest workaround is to select a different source endpoint.

=item bprecvtest bundle reception failed.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the
cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item bprecvtest: can't open test file

File system error.  B<bprecvtest> terminates.

=item bprecvtest: can't receive bundle content.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the
cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item bprecvtest: can't write to test file

File system error.  B<bprecvtest> terminates.

=item bprecvtest cannot continue.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the
cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item bprecvtest: can't handle bundle delivery.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the
cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <https://github.com/nasa-jpl/ION-DTN/issues>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpsendtest(1), bprecvfile(1), bp(3)
