=head1 NAME

bprecvfile2 - Bundle Protocol (BP) file reception utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bprecvfile> I<own_endpoint_ID> [I<filename>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<This is an updated version of the original bprecvfile utility>

B<bprecvfile> is intended to serve as the counterpart to B<bpsendfile>.  It
uses bp_receive() to receive bundles containing file content.  The content
of each bundle is simply written to a file named "filename". If the filename
is not provided on the command line bundles are written to stdout. Use of
UNIX pipes is allowed. Note: If filename exists data will be appended to that
file. If filename does not exist it will be created.
Use ^C to terminate the program.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bprecvfile> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item Can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized BP operations.

=item Can't open own endpoint.

Another BP application task currently has I<own_endpoint_ID> open for
bundle origination and reception.  Try again after that task has terminated.
If no such task exists, it may have crashed while still holding the endpoint
open; the easiest workaround is to select a different source endpoint.

=item bprecvfile bundle reception failed.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the
cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item bprecvfile: can't open test file

File system error.  B<bprecvfile> terminates.

=item bprecvfile: can't receive bundle content.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the
cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item bprecvfile: can't write to test file

File system error.  B<bprecvfile> terminates.

=item bprecvfile cannot continue.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the
cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item bprecvfile: can't handle bundle delivery.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the
cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpsendfile(1), bp(3)
