=head1 NAME

bpsource - Bundle Protocol transmission test shell

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bpsource> I<destinationEndpointId> ["I<text>"] [-tI<TTL>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

When I<text> is supplied, B<bpsource> simply uses Bundle Protocol
to send I<text> to a counterpart B<bpsink> application task that
has opened the BP endpoint identified by I<destinationEndpointId>, then
terminates.


Otherwise, B<bpsource> offers the user an interactive "shell" for testing
Bundle Protocol data transmission.  B<bpsource> prints a prompt string (": ")
to stdout, accepts a string of text from stdin, uses Bundle Protocol
to send the string to a counterpart B<bpsink> application task that
has opened the BP endpoint identified by I<destinationEndpointId>, then
prints another prompt string and so on.  To terminate the program, enter
a string consisting of a single exclamation point (!) character.

I<TTL> indicates the number of seconds the bundles may remain in the
network, undelivered, before they are automatically destroyed. If omitted, I<TTL>
defaults to 300 seconds.

The source endpoint ID for each bundle sent by B<bpsource> is the null
endpoint ID, i.e., the bundles are anonymous.  All bundles are sent standard
priority with no custody transfer and no status reports requested.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bpsource> has terminated.  Any problems encountered during operation
will be noted in the B<ion.log> log file.

=back

=head1 FILES

The service data units transmitted by B<bpsource> are sequences of text
obtained from a file in the current working directory named "bpsourceAduFile",
which B<bpsource> creates automatically.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Diagnostic messages produced by B<bpsource> are written to the ION log
file I<ion.log>.

=over 4

=item Can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item bpsource fgets failed

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item No space for ZCO extent.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item Can't create ZCO extent.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item bpsource can't send ADU

Bundle Protocol service to the remote endpoint has been stopped.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bpsink(1), bp(3)
