=head1 NAME

bpstats2 - Bundle Protocol (BP) processing statistics query utility via bundles

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bpstats2> I<sourceEID> [I<default destEID>] [ct]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bpstats2> creates bundles containing the current values of all BP processing
statistics accumulators.  It creates these bundles when:

=over 4

=item *

an interrogation bundle is delivered to I<sourceEID>: the contents of the
bundle are discarded, a new statistics bundle is generated and sent to the
source of the interrogation bundle.  The format of the interrogation bundle
is irrelevant.

=item *

a SIGUSR1 signal is delivered to the B<bpstats2> application: a new
statistics bundle is generated and sent to I<default destEID>.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bpstats2> has terminated. Any problems encountered during operation will be
noted in the B<ion.log> log file.

=item "1"

B<bpstats2> failed to start up or receive bundles.  Diagnose the issue 
reported in the B<ion.log> file and try again.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item [ct]

If the string "ct" is appended as the last argument, then statistics bundles
will be sent with custody transfer requested.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item bpstats2 can't bp_attach().

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized BP operations.

=item bpstats2 can't open own endpoint.

Another BP application has opened that endpoint; close it and try again.

=item No space for ZCO extent.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item Can't create ZCO extent.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item bpstats2 can't send stats bundle.

Bundle Protocol service to the remote endpoint has been stopped.

=item Can't send stats: bad dest EID (dest EID)

The destination EID printed is an invalid destination EID.  The destination
EID may be specified in I<default destEID> or the source EID of the
interrogation bundle.  Ensure that I<default destEID> is an EID that 
is valid for ION, and that the interrogator is a source EID that is also
a valid destination EID.  Note that "dtn:none" is not a valid destination
EID, but is a valid source EID.

=back

=head1 NOTES

A very simple interrogator is L<bpchat> which can repeatedly interrogate
B<bpstats2> by just striking the enter key.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpstats(1), bpchat(1)
