=head1 NAME

bptrace - Bundle Protocol (BP) network trace utility
Updated from original by Silas Springer - March 2023.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bptrace> [-v] [-msg "I<msg>"] [-ttl I<ttl>] [-rtt I<rtt>] [-qos I<qos>] [-flags I<flags>] I<srcEid> I<destEid> I<traceEid>
Backwards compatible with legacy usage:
B<bptrace> I<srcEid> I<destEid> I<traceEid> I<ttl> I<qos> "I<msg>" [I<flags>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bptrace> uses bp_send() to issue a single bundle to a designated
destination endpoint, with status reporting options enabled as selected
by the user, then terminates.  The status reports returned as the bundle
makes its way through the network provide a view of the operation of the
network as currently configured.

I<ttl> indicates the number of seconds the trace bundle may remain in the
network, undelivered, before it is automatically destroyed.

I<qos> is I<custody-requested>.I<priority>[.I<ordinal>[.I<unreliable>.I<critical>[.I<data-label>]]],
where I<custody-requested> must be 0 or 1 (Boolean), I<priority> must be 0
(bulk) or 1 (standard) or 2 (expedited), I<ordinal> must be 0-254,
I<unreliable> must be 0 or 1 (Boolean), I<critical> must also be 0 or 1
(Boolean), and I<data-label> may be any unsigned integer.  I<custody-requested>
is passed in with the bundle transmission request, but if set to 1 it serves
only to request the use of reliable convergence-layer protocols; this will
have the effect of enabling custody transfer whenever the applicable
convergence-layer protocol is bundle-in-bundle encapsulation (BIBE).
I<ordinal> is ignored if I<priority> is not 2.  Setting I<qos> to
"0.2.254" or "1.2.254" gives a bundle the highest possible priority.  Setting
I<unreliable> to 1 causes BP to forego convergence-layer retransmission in
the event of data loss.  Setting I<critical> to 1 causes contact graph routing
to forward the bundle on all plausible routes rather than just the "best" route
it computes; this may result in multiple copies of the bundle arriving at the
destination endpoint, but when used in conjunction with priority 2.254 it
ensures that the bundle will be delivered as soon as physically possible.

I<msg> can be any string of ASCII text; alternatively, if we want to send
a file, it can be "@" followed by the name of the file.

I<flags> must be a sequence of status report flags, separated
by commas, with no embedded whitespace.  Each status report flag must be one
of the following: rcv, fwd, dlv, del.

When I<traceEid> is the same node as I<srcEid> but with a differing, non-zero ID 
(e.g. I<srcEid> is 2.2 and I<traceEid> is 2.3) and the arguments are not specified
using the legacy format; bptrace will listen on the specified I<traceEid> and give 
a summary of recieved trace information to the terminal once the ttl has expired.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bptrace> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item bptrace can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized BP operations.

=item bptrace can't open own endpoint.

Another BP application task currently has I<srcEid> open for
bundle origination and reception.  Try again after that task has terminated.
If no such task exists, it may have crashed while still holding the endpoint
open; the easiest workaround is to select a different source endpoint.

=item No space for bptrace text.

Probably an unrecoverable database error, in which case the local ION
node must be terminated and re-initialized.

=item bptrace can't create ZCO.

Probably an unrecoverable database error, in which case the local ION
node must be terminated and re-initialized.

=item bptrace can't send message.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the
cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <https://github.com/nasa-jpl/ION-DTN/issues>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bp(3)
