=head1 NAME

cpsd - contact plan synchronization daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cpsd>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<cpsd> is a background "daemon" task that effects the synchronization of
contact plan changes across all nodes in the region corresponding to that
contact plan.

It accomplishes this by (a) de-queueing contact plan synchronization notices
from the local node's ION database (inserted into that queue when contacts
were added to the local node's contact plan with "announce" requested) and
multicasting those notices to all other nodes in the corresponding region
and (b) receiving CPS notices multicast by other cpsd tasks and applying
them to the local node's contact plan for the indicated region.

B<cpsd> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's' (START)
command that starts operation of the Bundle Protocol, and it is terminated by
B<bpadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.

Note that in order for cpsd to operate, ION must be built with multicast
enabled and both the "imc" scheme and the "imc:0.1" endpoint must be defined
in the configuration of the node.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<cpsd> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bpadmin> to restart contact plan synchronization.

=item "1"

B<cpsd> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart contact plan synchronization.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item cpsd can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item cpsd task is already started for this node

Redundant initiation of B<cpsd>.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <https://github.com/nasa-jpl/ION-DTN/issues>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bprc(5)
