=head1 NAME

dgrclo - DGR-based BP convergence layer transmission task

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dgrclo> I<remote_hostname>[:I<remote_port_nbr>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<dgrclo> is a background "daemon" task that spawns two threads, one that
handles DGR convergence layer protocol input (positive and negative
acknowledgments) and a second that handles DGR convergence layer protocol
output.

The output thread extracts bundles from the queues of bundles ready for
transmission via DGR to a remote bundle protocol agent, encapsulates them in
DGR messages, and uses a randomly configured local UDP socket to send those
messages to the remote UDP socket bound to I<remote_hostname> and
I<remote_port_nbr>.  (I<local_port_nbr> defaults to 1113 if not specified.)

The input thread receives DGR messages via the same local UDP socket and uses
them to manage DGR retransmission of transmitted datagrams.

B<dgrclo> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's' (START)
command that starts operation of the Bundle Protocol, and it is terminated by
B<bpadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.  B<dgrclo> can also be
spawned and terminated in response to START and STOP commands that pertain
specifically to the DGR convergence layer protocol.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<dgrclo> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bpadmin> to restart B<dgrclo>.

=item "1"

B<dgrclo> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart B<dgrclo>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item dgrclo can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item CLI task is already started for this engine.

Redundant initiation of B<dgrclo>.

=item No such dgr outduct.

No DGR outduct with duct name matching I<remote_hostname> and I<remote_port_nbr>
has been added to the BP database.  Use B<bpadmin> to stop the DGR
convergence-layer protocol, add the outduct, and then restart the DGR protocol.

=item dgrclo can't open DGR service access point.

DGR system error.  Check prior messages in B<ion.log> log file, correct
problem, and then stop and restart the DGR protocol.

=item dgrclo can't create sender thread

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart DGR.

=item dgrclo can't create receiver thread

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart DGR.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bprc(5)
