=head1 NAME

dtn2adminep - administrative endpoint task for the "dtn" scheme

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dtn2adminep>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<dtn2adminep> is a background "daemon" task that receives and processes
administrative bundles (all custody signals and, nominally, all bundle
status reports) that are sent to the "dtn"-scheme administrative endpoint
on the local ION node, if and only if such an endpoint was established by
B<bpadmin>.  It is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the
's' (START) command that starts operation of Bundle Protocol on the local
ION node, and it is terminated by B<bpadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP)
command.  B<dtn2adminep> can also be spawned and terminated in response to
START and STOP commands that pertain specifically to the "dtn" scheme.

B<dtn2adminep> responds to custody signals as specified in the Bundle
Protocol specification, RFC 5050.  It responds to bundle status reports
by logging ASCII text messages describing the reported activity.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<dtn2adminep> terminated, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If this
termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bpadmin> to restart B<dtn2adminep>.

=item "1"

B<dtn2adminep> was unable to attach to Bundle Protocol operations or was
unable to load the "dtn" scheme database, probably because B<bpadmin> has
not yet been run.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item dtn2adminep can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized BP operations.

=item dtn2adminep can't load routing database.

B<dtn2admin> has not yet initialized the "dtn" scheme.

=item dtn2adminep can't get admin EID.

B<dtn2admin> has not yet initialized the "dtn" scheme.

=item dtn2adminep crashed.

An unrecoverable database error was encountered.  B<dtn2adminep> terminates.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), dtn2admin(1).
