=head1 NAME

hmackeys - utility program for generating good HMAC-SHA1 keys

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<hmackeys> [ I<keynames_filename> ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<hmackeys> writes files containing randomized 160-bit key values suitable
for use by HMAC-SHA1 in support of Bundle Authentication Block processing,
Bundle Relay Service connections, or other functions for which symmetric
hash computation is applicable.  One file is written for each key name
presented to I<hmackeys>; the content of each file is 20 consecutive randomly
selected 8-bit integer values, and the name given to each file is simply
"I<keyname>.hmk".

B<hmackeys> operates in response to the key names found in the file
I<keynames_filename>, one name per file text line, if provided; if not,
B<hmackeys> prints a simple prompt (:) so that the user may type key names
directly into standard input.

When the program is run in interactive mode, either enter 'q' or press ^C to
terminate.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"
Completion of key generation.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item hmackeys

Enter interactive HMAC/SHA1 key generation mode.

=item hmackeys host1.keynames

Create a key file for each key name in I<host1.keynames>, then terminate
immediately.

=back

=head1 FILES

No other files are used in the operation of I<hmackeys>.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the logfile ion.log:

=over 4

=item Can't open keynames file...

The I<keynames_filename> specified in the command line doesn't exist.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

brsscla(1), ionsecadmin(1)
