=head1 NAME

imcadminep - administrative endpoint task for the IMC (multicast) scheme

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<imcadminep>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<imcadminep> is a background "daemon" task that receives and processes
administrative bundles (multicast group petitions) that are sent to the
IMC-scheme administrative endpoint on the local ION node, if and only
if such an endpoint was established by B<bpadmin>.  It is spawned
automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's' (START) command
that starts operation of Bundle Protocol on the local ION node, and
it is terminated by B<bpadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.
B<imcadminep> can also be spawned and terminated in response to
START and STOP commands that pertain specifically to the IMC scheme.

B<imcadminep> responds to multicast group "join" and "leave" petitions
by managing entries in the node's database of multicast groups and
their members.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<imcadminep> terminated, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If this
termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bpadmin> to restart B<imcadminep>.

=item "1"

B<imcadminep> was unable to attach to Bundle Protocol operations or was
unable to load the IMC scheme database, probably because B<bpadmin> has
not yet been run.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item imcadminep can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized BP operations.

=item imcadminep can't load routing database.

B<imcadmin> has not yet initialized the IMC scheme.

=item imcadminep crashed.

An unrecoverable database error was encountered.  B<imcadminep> terminates.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bprc(5)
