=head1 NAME

imcadmin - Interplanetary Multicast (IMC) scheme administration interface

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<imcadmin> [ I<commands_filename> ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<imcadmin> configures the local ION node's routing of bundles to endpoints
whose IDs conform to the I<imc> endpoint ID scheme.  I<imc> is a CBHE-conformant
scheme; that is, every endpoint ID in the I<imc> scheme is a string of the
form "imc:I<group_number>.I<service_number>" where I<group_number> (an IMC
multicast group number) serves as a CBHE "node number" and I<service_number>
identifies a specific application processing point.

B<imcadmin> operates in response to IMC scheme configuration commands found
in the file I<commands_filename>, if provided; if not, B<imcadmin> prints
a simple prompt (:) so that the user may type commands
directly into standard input.

The format of commands for I<commands_filename> can be queried from B<imcadmin>
with the 'h' or '?' commands at the prompt.  The commands are documented in
imcrc(5).

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"
Successful completion of IMC scheme administration.

=item "1"
Unsuccessful completion of IMC scheme administration, due to inability to
attach to the Bundle Protocol system or to initialize the IMC scheme.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item imcadmin

Enter interactive IMC scheme configuration command entry mode.

=item imcadmin host1.imcrc

Execute all configuration commands in I<host1.imcrc>, then terminate
immediately.

=back

=head1 FILES

See imcrc(5) for details of the IMC scheme configuration commands.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

B<Note>: all ION administration utilities expect source file input to be
lines of ASCII text that are NL-delimited.  If you edit the imcrc file on
a Windows machine, be sure to B<use dos2unix to convert it to Unix text format>
before presenting it to B<imcadmin>.  Otherwise B<imcadmin> will detect syntax
errors and will not function satisfactorily.

The following diagnostics may be issued to the logfile ion.log:

=over 4

=item imcadmin can't attach to BP.

Bundle Protocol has not been initialized on this computer.  You need to run
bpadmin(1) first.

=item imcadmin can't initialize routing database.

There is no SDR data store for I<imcadmin> to use.  Please run ionadmin(1) to
start the local ION node.

=item Can't open command file...

The I<commands_filename> specified in the command line doesn't exist.

=back

Various errors that don't cause B<imcadmin> to fail but are noted in the
B<ion.log> log file may be caused by improperly formatted commands
given at the prompt or in the I<commands_filename> file.
Please see imcrc(5) for details.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

imcrc(5)
