=head1 NAME

ltpclo - LTP-based BP convergence layer adapter output task

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ltpclo> I<remote_node_nbr>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ltpclo> is a background "daemon" task that extracts bundles from the
queues of segments ready for transmission via LTP to the remote bundle
protocol agent identified by I<remote_node_nbr> and passes them to the
local LTP engine for aggregation, segmentation, and transmission to the
remote node.

B<ltpclo> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's' (START)
command that starts operation of the Bundle Protocol, and it is terminated by
B<bpadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.  B<ltpclo> can also be
spawned and terminated in response to START and STOP commands that pertain
specifically to the LTP convergence layer protocol.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<ltpclo> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bpadmin> to restart the BRSC protocol.

=item "1"

B<ltpclo> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart the BRSC protocol.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item ltpclo can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item No such ltp duct.

No LTP outduct with duct name matching I<remote_node_nbr> has been added
to the BP database.  Use B<bpadmin> to stop the LTP convergence-layer
protocol, add the outduct, and then restart the LTP protocol.

=item CLO task is already started for this duct.

Redundant initiation of B<ltpclo>.

=item ltpclo can't initialize LTP.

B<ltpadmin> has not yet initialized LTP operations.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bprc(5), ltpadmin(1), ltprc(5), ltpcli(1)
