=head1 NAME

recvfile - Bundle Protocol (BP) file reception utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<recvfile> I<own_endpoint_ID> [I<-o|--overwrite>] [I<key_file_path | literal_key_value>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<recvfile> is intended to serve as the counterpart to B<sendfile>.  It
uses bp_receive() to receive bundles containing the file content.  The content
of each bundle is written to a file and named using data extracted from
the metadata header. The program's default behavior auto-encrements file 
names but this behavior can be disabled with the -o (or --overwrite) flag.

Additionally, if used with ION-NASA Baseline, B<recvfile> allows for
the decryption of encrypted files sent by B<sendfile>. To enable decryption use
the path to a valid HMAC key or a literal key value. 

Note: decryption requires a suitable cryptographic library and interface (which is 
avaiable with the ITAR controlled ION NASA Baseline).

Use ^C to terminate the program at any time.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<recvfile> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item Can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized BP operations.

=item Can't open own endpoint.

Another BP application task currently has I<own_endpoint_ID> open for
bundle origination and reception.  Try again after that task has terminated.
If no such task exists, it may have crashed while still holding the endpoint
open; the easiest workaround is to select a different source endpoint.

=item recvfile bundle reception failed.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the
cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item recvfile: can't open test file

File system error.  B<recvfile> terminates.

=item recvfile: can't receive bundle content.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the
cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item recvfile: can't write to test file

File system error.  B<recvfile> terminates.

=item recvfile cannot continue.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the
cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item recvfile: can't handle bundle delivery.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the
cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <https://github.com/nasa-jpl/ION-DTN/issues>

=head1 SEE ALSO

sendfile(1), bp(3), metadata(3), secrypt(3)
