=head1 NAME

sendfile - Bundle Protocol (BP) file transmission utility utilizing a "metadata 
header" for file name, timestamp, versioning, and auxiliary command strings, 
enabling file naming at the recvfile utility. Encryption is enabled when a HMAC
key path (or literal value) is included in the command execution string. 

Note: encryption requires a suitable cryptographic library and interface (which 
is avaiable with the ITAR controlled ION NASA Baseline).

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<sendfile> I<own endpoint ID> I<destination endpoint ID> I<file name>
[-c|--class I<class of service>] [-t|--ttl I<time to live (seconds)>]
[I<key file path | literal key value>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<sendfile> employs bp_send() to transmit a single bundle to a specified
destination endpoint, incorporating the file's contents detailed by
I<file_name>. The process concludes following the bundle's dispatch, without
initiating a custody transfer. The absence of I<class_of_service> implies a
standard priority delivery. Refer to bptrace(1) for details on
I<class_of_service>. Without a specified I<time_to_live>, a default of 300
seconds (5 minutes) is assumed. Encryption can be facilitated by including a
valid HMAC key (either a path or a literal value) when operating within the
ITAR controlled ION NASA Baseline (ION-INB), provided a compatible
cryptographic library is installed.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

Successful termination of B<sendfile>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are necessary.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

Not applicable.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Diagnostic messages to B<ion.log> may include:

=over 4

=item Can't attach to BP.

Signifies BP operations have yet to be initialized by B<bpadmin>.

=item Can't open own endpoint.

Indicates I<own_endpoint_ID> is currently in use. Retry after the current task
has concluded or opt for a different endpoint if a previous task crashed.

=item Can't stat the file

Suggests an operating system error. Check errtext, address the issue, and
attempt the operation again.

=item sendfile can't create file ref.

Points to a potential critical database problem, likely requiring a reboot of
the local ION node.

=item sendfile can't create ZCO.

Implies a serious database error, necessitating a restart of the ION node.

=item sendfile can't send file in bundle.

Reflects a BP system malfunction. Review earlier diagnostic messages for
possible solutions.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <https://github.com/nasa-jpl/ION-DTN/issues>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

recvfile(1), bp(3), metadata(3), secrypt(3)
