=head1 NAME

udpclo - UDP-based BP convergence layer output task

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<udpclo> I<remote_hostname>[:I<remote_port_nbr>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<udpclo> is a background "daemon" task that extracts bundles from the
queues of bundles ready for transmission via UDP to a remote node's UDP
socket at I<remote_hostname> and I<remote_port_nbr>, encapsulates those
bundles in UDP datagrams, and sends those datagrams to that remote UDP socket.

B<udpclo> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's' (START)
command that starts operation of the Bundle Protocol, and it is terminated by
B<bpadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.  B<udpclo> can also be
spawned and terminated in response to START and STOP commands that pertain
specifically to the UDP convergence layer protocol.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<udpclo> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bpadmin> to restart B<udpclo>.

=item "1"

B<udpclo> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart B<udpclo>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item udpclo can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item No memory for UDP buffer in udpclo.

ION system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart UDP.

=item No such udp duct.

No UDP outduct with duct name I<remote_hostname>[:<remote_port_nbr>] has been
added to the BP database.  Use B<bpadmin> to stop the UDP convergence-layer
protocol, add the outduct, and then restart the UDP protocol.

=item CLO task is already started for this engine.

Redundant initiation of B<udpclo>.

=item CLO can't open UDP socket

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart B<udpclo>.

=item CLO write() error on socket

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart B<udpclo>.

=item Bundle is too big for UDP CLA.

Configuration error: bundles that are too large for UDP transmission (i.e.,
larger than 65535 bytes) are being enqueued for B<udpclo>.  Change routing.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bprc(5), udpcli(1)
