=head1 NAME

udpcli - UDP-based BP convergence layer input task

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<udpcli> I<local_hostname>[:I<local_port_nbr>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<udpcli> is a background "daemon" task that receives UDP datagrams via a
UDP socket bound to I<local_hostname> and I<local_port_nbr>, extracts
bundles from those datagrams, and passes them to the bundle protocol agent
on the local ION node.

If not specified, port number defaults to 4556.

The convergence layer input task is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in
response to the 's' (START) command that starts operation of the Bundle
Protocol; the text of the command that is used to spawn the task must be
provided at the time the "udp" convergence layer protocol is added to the BP
database.  The convergence layer input task is terminated by B<bpadmin>
in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.  B<udpcli> can also be spawned and
terminated in response to START and STOP commands that pertain specifically
to the UDP convergence layer protocol.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<udpcli> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bpadmin> to restart B<udpcli>.

=item "1"

B<udpcli> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart B<udpcli>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item udpcli can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item No such udp duct.

No UDP induct matching I<local_hostname> and I<local_port_nbr> has been added
to the BP database.  Use B<bpadmin> to stop the UDP convergence-layer
protocol, add the induct, and then restart the UDP protocol.

=item CLI task is already started for this duct.

Redundant initiation of B<udpcli>.

=item Can't get IP address for host

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart UDP.

=item Can't open UDP socket

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart UDP.

=item Can't initialize socket

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart UDP.

=item udpcli can't create receiver thread

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart UDP.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bprc(5), udpclo(1)
