=head1 NAME

dtpcclock - DTPC daemon task for managing scheduled events

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dtpcclock>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<dtpcclock> is a background "daemon" task that periodically performs
scheduled DTPC activities.  It is spawned automatically by B<dtpcadmin> in
response to the 's' command that starts operation of the DTPC protocol, and
it is terminated by B<dtpcadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.

Once per second, B<dtpcclock> takes the following action:

=over 4

First it executes all DTPC events scheduled to occur at any time up to the
current moment:

=over 4

DTPC ADUs for which an expected positive acknowledgment has not yet arrived
are retransmitted.

Received DTPC ADUs whose time to live has elapsed are deleted.

=back

Then B<dtpcclock> increases the ages of all DTPC ADUs pending transmission
and initiates transmission of each such ADU whose age now equals or exceeds
its aggregation time limit.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item C<0>

B<dtpcclock> terminated, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If this
termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<dtpcadmin> to restart B<dtpcclock>.

=item C<1>

B<dtpcclock> was unable to attach to DTPC protocol operations, probably because
B<dtpcadmin> has not yet been run.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item dtpcclock can't initialize DTPC.

B<dtpcadmin> has not yet initialized DTPC protocol operations.

=item Can't send finished adu.

An unrecoverable database error was encountered.  B<dtpcclock> terminates.

=item Can't stop aggregation for adu.

An unrecoverable database error was encountered.  B<dtpcclock> terminates.

=item Could not scan outbound Adus

An unrecoverable database error was encountered.  B<dtpcclock> terminates.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

dtpcadmin(1)
