=head1 NAME

dtpcd - DTPC daemon task for receiving and processing DTPC ADUs in bundles

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dtpcd>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<dtpcd> is a background "daemon" task that manages the reception and
processing of DTPC protocol data units.  It receives the payloads
of bundles destined for the "ipn"-scheme endpoint whose node number is the
number of the local node and whose service number is the DTPC_RECV_SVC_NBR
(129 as of the time of this writeng).

DTPC protocol data units are of two types: application data units (ADUs,
i.e., aggregations of application data items) and acknowledgments.  Each
acknowledgment is interpreted as authorization to release the buffer space
occupied by the node's local copy of the acknowledged ADU.  Each ADU is
parsed into its constituent application data items, which are then delivered
to the applications awaiting them, and when required a DTPC end-to-end
acknowledgment PDU is returned to the DTPC PDU sender.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item C<0>

B<dtpcd> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<dtpcadmin> to restart B<dtpcd>.

=item C<1>

B<dtpcd> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<dtpcadmin> to restart B<dtpcd>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item DTPC can't open own 'send' endpoint. 

Bundle protocol agent has not been started.  See ion(3).

=item dtpcd can't attach to DTPC. 

B<dtpcadmin> has not yet initialized DTPC protocol operations.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

dtpcadmin(1), ion(3)
