=head1 NAME

dtpcadmin - Delay-Tolerant Payload Conditioning (DTPC) administration interface

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dtpcadmin> [ I<commands_filename> | . ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<dtpcadmin> configures, starts, manages, and stops DTPC operations for
the local ION node.
	
It operates in response to DTPC configuration commands found in the file
I<commands_filename>, if provided; if not, B<dtpcadmin> prints
a simple prompt (:) so that the user may type commands
directly into standard input.  If I<commands_filename> is a period (.), the
effect is the same as if a command file containing the single command 'x'
were passed to B<dtpcadmin> -- that is, the ION node's I<dtpcclock> task and
I<dtpcd> task are stopped.

The format of commands for I<commands_filename> can be queried from
B<dtpcadmin> with the 'h' or '?' commands at the prompt.  The commands are
documented in dtpcrc(5).

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item C<0>

Successful completion of DTPC administration.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item dtpcadmin

Enter interactive DTPC configuration command entry mode.

=item dtpcadmin host1.dtpc

Execute all configuration commands in I<host1.dtpc>, then terminate immediately.

=item dtpcadmin .

Stop all DTPC operations on the local node.

=back

=head1 FILES

See dtpcrc(5) for details of the DTPC configuration commands.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

B<Note>: all ION administration utilities expect source file input to be
lines of ASCII text that are NL-delimited.  If you edit the dtpcrc file on
a Windows machine, be sure to B<use dos2unix to convert it to Unix text format>
before presenting it to B<dtpcadmin>.  Otherwise B<dtpcadmin> will detect syntax
errors and will not function satisfactorily.

The following diagnostics may be issued to the logfile ion.log:

=over 4

=item dtpcadmin can't attach to ION.

There is no SDR data store for I<dtpcadmin> to use.  You should run ionadmin(1)
first, to set up an SDR data store for ION.

=item Can't open command file...

The I<commands_filename> specified in the command line doesn't exist.

=back

Various errors that don't cause B<dtpcadmin> to fail but are noted in the
B<ion.log> log file may be caused by improperly formatted commands
given at the prompt or in the I<commands_filename> file.
Please see dtpcrc(5) for details.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

dtpcrc(5)
