=head1 NAME

ltp - Licklider Transmission Protocol (LTP) communications library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    #include "ltp.h"

    typedef enum
    {
	LtpNoNotice = 0,
	LtpExportSessionStart,
	LtpXmitComplete,
	LtpExportSessionCanceled,
	LtpExportSessionComplete,
	LtpRecvGreenSegment,
	LtpRecvRedPart,
	LtpImportSessionCanceled
    } LtpNoticeType;

    [see description for available functions]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The ltp library provides functions enabling application software to use LTP
to send and receive information reliably over a long-latency link.  It
conforms to the LTP specification as documented by the Delay-Tolerant
Networking Research Group of the Internet Research Task Force.

The LTP notion of B<engine ID> corresponds closely to the Internet notion of
a host, and in ION engine IDs are normally indistinguishable from node numbers
including the node numbers in Bundle Protocol endpoint IDs conforming to
the "ipn" scheme.

The LTP notion of B<client ID> corresponds closely to the Internet notion of
"protocol number" as used in the Internet Protocol.  It enables data from
multiple applications -- clients -- to be multiplexed over a single reliable
link.  However, for ION operations we normally use LTP exclusively for the
transmission of Bundle Protocol data, identified by client ID = 1.

=over 4

=item int ltp_attach()

Attaches the application to LTP functionality on the lcoal computer.  Returns
0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item void ltp_detach()

Terminates all access to LTP functionality on the local computer.

=item int ltp_engine_is_started()

Returns 1 if the local LTP engine has been started and not yet stopped,
0 otherwise.

=item int ltp_send(uvast destinationEngineId, unsigned int clientId, Object clientServiceData, unsigned int redLength, LtpSessionId *sessionId)

Sends a client service data unit to the application that is waiting for
data tagged with the indicated I<clientId> as received at the remote LTP
engine identified by I<destinationEngineId>.

I<clientServiceData> must be a "zero-copy object" reference as returned
by ionCreateZco().  Note that LTP will privately make and destroy its own
reference to the client service data object; the application is free to
destroy its reference at any time.

I<redLength> indicates the number of leading bytes of data in
I<clientServiceData> that are to be sent reliably, i.e., with selective
retransmission in response to explicit or implicit negative acknowledgment
as necessary.  All remaining bytes of data in I<clientServiceData> will be
sent as "green" data, i.e., unreliably.  If I<redLength> is zero, the entire
client service data unit will be sent unreliably.  If the entire client
service data unit is to be sent reliably, I<redLength> may be simply be set
to LTP_ALL_RED (i.e., -1).

On success, the function populates I<*sessionId> with the source engine ID
and the "session number" assigned to transmission of this client service
data unit and returns zero.  The session number may be used to link future
LTP processing events, such as transmission cancellation, to the affected
client service data.  ltp_send() returns -1 on any error.

=item int ltp_open(unsigned int clientId)

Establishes the application's exclusive access to received service data
units tagged with the indicated client service data ID.  At any time, only
a single application task is permitted to receive service data units for
any single client service data ID.

Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error (e.g., the indicated client service
is already being held open by some other application task).

=item int ltp_get_notice(unsigned int clientId, LtpNoticeType *type, LtpSessionId *sessionId, unsigned char *reasonCode, unsigned char *endOfBlock, unsigned int *dataOffset, unsigned int *dataLength, Object *data)

Receives notices of LTP processing events pertaining to the flow of service
data units tagged with the indicated client service ID.  The nature of each
event is indicated by I<*type>.  Additional parameters characterizing the
event are returned in I<*sessionId>, I<*reasonCode>, I<*endOfBlock>,
I<*dataOffset>, I<*dataLength>, and I<*data> as relevant.

The value returned in I<*data> is always a zero-copy object; use the
zco_* functions defined in "zco.h" to retrieve the content of that object.

When the notice is an LtpRecvGreenSegment, the ZCO returned in I<*data>
contains the content of a single LTP green segment.  Reassembly of the
green part of some block from these segments is the responsibility of
the application.

When the notice is an LtpRecvRedPart, the ZCO returned in I<*data>
contains the red part of a possibly aggregated block.  The ZCO's content
may therefore comprise multiple service data objects.  Extraction of
individual service data objects from the aggregated block is the
responsibility of the application.  A simple way to do this is to
prepend the length of the service data object to the object itself
(using zco_prepend_header) before calling ltp_send, so that the
receiving application can alternate extraction of object lengths and
objects from the delivered block's red part.

The cancellation of an export session may result in delivery of multiple
LtpExportSessionCanceled notices, one for each service data unit in the
export session's (potentially) aggregated block.  The ZCO returned in
I<*data> for each such notice is a service data unit ZCO that had previously
been passed to ltp_send().

ltp_get_notice() always blocks indefinitely until an LTP processing event
is delivered.

Returns zero on success, -1 on any error.

=item void ltp_interrupt(unsigned int clientId)

Interrupts an ltp_get_notice() invocation.  This function is designed to be
called from a signal handler; for this purpose, I<clientId> may need to be
obtained from a static variable.

=item void ltp_release_data(Object data)

Releases the resources allocated to hold I<data>, which must be a B<received>
client service data ZCO.

=item void ltp_close(unsigned int clientId)

Terminates the application's exclusive access to received service data
units tagged with the indicated client service data ID.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

ltpadmin(1), ltprc(5), zco(3)
