=head1 NAME

bssprc - Bundle Streaming Service Protocol management commands file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

BSSP management commands are passed to B<bsspadmin> either in a file of
text lines or interactively at B<bsspadmin>'s command prompt (:).  Commands
are interpreted line-by line, with exactly one command per line.  The formats
and effects of the BSSP management commands are described below.

=head1 COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<?>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<h> command.

=item B<#>

Comment line.  Lines beginning with B<#> are not interpreted.

=item B<e> { 1 | 0 }

Echo control.  Setting echo to 1 causes all output printed by bsspadmin to be
logged as well as sent to stdout.  Setting echo to 0 disables this behavior.

=item B<v> 

Version number.  Prints out the version of ION currently installed.  HINT:
combine with B<e 1> command to log the version number at startup.

=item B<1> I<est_max_nbr_of_sessions>

The B<initialize> command.  Until this command is executed, BSSP is not
in operation on the local ION node and most I<bsspadmin> commands will fail.

The command uses I<est_max_nbr_of_sessions> to configure the hashtable it
will use to manage access to transmission sessions that are currently
in progress.  For optimum performance, I<est_max_nbr_of_sessions> should
normally equal or exceed the summation of I<max_nbr_of_sessions> over all
spans as discussed below.

=item B<a span> I<peer_engine_nbr> I<max_nbr_of_sessions> I<max_block_size> 'I<BE-BSO_command>' 'I<RL-BSO_command> [I<queuing_latency>]

The B<add span> command.  This command declares that a I<span> of potential
BSSP data interchange exists between the local BSSP engine and the indicated
(neighboring) BSSP engine.

The I<max_block_size> is expressed as a number of bytes of data.
I<max_block_size> is used to configure transmission buffer sizes; as such, it
limits client data item size. When exceeded, it causes bssp_send() to fail, and
bssp_clo() to shutdown. To restart bssp_clo() without rebooting ION immediately,
say, due to on-going data transfer over other convergence layers, one can try to first 
stop bpadmin with 'x', then stop bsspadmin with 'x', then run ionrestart to repair
any issue in the volatile database, then relaunch bssp daemon and then bp
daemon using corresponding configuration files. This procedure could temporarily 
enable resumption of operation until it is safe to reboot ION.

I<max_nbr_of__sessions> constitutes, in effect, the local BSSP engine's
retransmission "window" for this span.  The retransmission windows of the
spans impose flow control on BSSP transmission, reducing the chance ofx
allocation of all available space in the ION node's data store to BSSP
transmission sessions.

I<BE-BSO_command> is script text that will be executed when BSSP is started on
this node, to initiate operation of the best-efforts transmission channel task
for this span.  Note that " I<peer_engine_nbr>" will automatically be
appended to I<BE-BSO_command> by B<bsspadmin> before the command is executed,
so only the link-service-specific portion of the command should be provided
in the I<LSO_command> string itself.

I<RL-BSO_command> is script text that will be executed when BSSP is started on
this node, to initiate operation of the reliable transmission channel task
for this span.  Note that " I<peer_engine_nbr>" will automatically be
appended to I<RL-BSO_command> by B<bsspadmin> before the command is executed,
so only the link-service-specific portion of the command should be provided
in the I<LSO_command> string itself.

I<queuing_latency> is the estimated number of seconds that we expect to lapse
between reception of a block at this node and transmission of an
acknowledging PDU, due to processing delay in the node.  (See the
'm ownqtime' command below.)  The default value is 1.

If I<queuing latency> a negative number, the absolute value of this number
is used as the actual queuing latency and session purging is enabled;
otherwise session purging is disabled.  If session purging is enabled
for a span then at the end of any period of transmission over this span
all of the span's export sessions that are currently in progress are
automatically canceled.  Notionally this forces re-forwarding of the DTN
bundles in each session's block, to avoid having to wait for the restart
of transmission on this span before those bundles can be successfully
transmitted.

=item B<a seat> 'I<BE-BSI_command>' 'I<RL-BSI_command>'

The B<add seat> command.  This command declares that the local BSSP engine
can receive BSSP PDUs via the link service input daemons that begin
running when 'I<BE-BSI_command>' and 'I<RL-BSI_command>' are executed.

=item B<c span> I<peer_engine_nbr> I<max_nbr_of_sessions> I<max_block_size> 'I<BE-BSO_command>' 'I<RL-BSO_command> [I<queuing_latency>]

The B<change span> command.  This command sets the indicated span's 
configuration parameters to the values provided as arguments.

=item B<d span> I<peer_engine_nbr>

The B<delete span> command.  This command deletes the span identified
by I<peer_engine_nbr>.  The command will fail if any outbound blocks
for this span are pending transmission.

=item B<d seat> 'I<BE-BSI_command>' 'I<RL-BSI_command>'

The B<delete span> command.  This command deletes the seat identified
by 'I<BE-BSI_command>' and 'I<RL-BSI_command>'.

=item B<i span> I<peer_engine_nbr>

This command will print information (all configuration parameters)
about the span identified by I<peer_engine_nbr>.

=item B<i seat> 'I<BE-BSI_command>' 'I<RL-BSI_command>'

This command will print all information (i.e., process ID numbers)
about the seat identified by 'I<BE-BSO_command>' and 'I<RL-BSO_command>'.

=item B<l span>

This command lists all declared BSSP data interchange spans.

=item B<l seat>

This command lists all declared BSSP data acquisition seats.

=item B<s> ['I<BE-BSI_command>' 'I<RL-BSI_command>']

The B<start> command.  This command starts reliable and best-efforts link
service output tasks for all BSSP spans (to remote engines) from the local
BSSP engine, and it starts the reliable and best-efforts link service input
tasks for the local engine.  'I<BE-BSI_command>' and 'I<RL-BSI_command>'
are deprecated but are supported for backward compatibility; if provided,
the effect is the same as entering the command 
"a seat 'I<BE-BSI_command>' 'I<RL-BSI_command>'" prior to starting all
daemon tasks.

=item B<m ownqtime> I<own_queuing_latency>

The B<manage own queuing time> command.  This command sets the number of
seconds of predicted additional latency attributable to processing delay
within the local engine itself that should be included whenever BSSP computes
the nominal round-trip time for an exchange of data with any remote engine.
The default value is 1.

=item B<x>

The B<stop> command.  This command stops all link service input and output
tasks for the local BSSP engine.

=item B<w> { 0 | 1 | <activity_spec> }

The B<BSSP watch> command.  This command enables and disables production of
a continuous stream of user-selected BSSP activity indication characters.  A
watch parameter of "1" selects all BSSP activity indication characters; "0"
de-selects all BSSP activity indication characters; any other I<activity_spec>
such as "DF-" selects the activity indication characters in the string,
de-selecting all others.  BSSP will print each selected activity indication
character to B<stdout> every time a processing event of the associated type
occurs:

B<D>	bssp send completed

B<E>	bssp block constructed for issuance

B<F>	bssp block issued

B<G>	bssp block popped from best-efforts transmission queue

B<H>	positive ACK received for bssp block, session ended

B<S>	bssp block received

B<T>	bssp block popped from reliable transmission queue

B<->	unacknowledged best-efforts block requeued for reliable transmission

B<*>	session canceled locally by sender

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<?> command.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item a span 19 20 4096 'udpbso node19.ohio.edu:5001' 'tcpbso node19.ohio.edu:5001'

Declares a data interchange span between the local BSSP engine and the remote
engine (ION node) numbered 19.  There can be at most 20 concurrent sessions
of BSSP transmission activity to this node.  Maximum block size for this span
is set to 4096 bytes, and the best-efforts and reliable link service
output tasks that are initiated when BSSP is started on the local ION node
will execute the I<udpbso> and I<tcpbso> programs as indicated.

=item m ownqtime 2

Sets local queuing delay allowance to 2 seconds.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

bsspadmin(1), udpbsi(1), udpbso(1), tcpbsi(1), tcpbso(1)
