=head1 NAME

bp - Bundle Protocol communications library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    #include "bp.h"

    [see description for available functions]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The bp library provides functions enabling application software to use
Bundle Protocol to send and receive information over a delay-tolerant
network.  It conforms to the Bundle Protocol specification as documented
in Internet RFC 5050.

=over 4

=item int bp_attach( )

Attaches the application to BP functionality on the local computer.  Returns
0 on success, -1 on any error.

Note that all ION libraries and applications draw memory dynamically, as
needed, from a shared pool of ION working memory.  The size of the pool is
established when ION node functionality is initialized by ionadmin(1).  This
is a precondition for initializing BP functionality by running bpadmin(1),
which in turn is required in order for bp_attach() to succeed.

=item Sdr bp_get_sdr( )

Returns handle for the SDR data store used for BP, to enable creation and
interrogation of bundle payloads (application data units).

=item void bp_detach( )

Terminates all access to BP functionality on the local computer.

=item int bp_open(char *eid, BpSAP *ionsapPtr)

Opens the application's access to the BP endpoint identified by I<eid>,
so that the application can take delivery of bundles destined for the
indicated endpoint.  This SAP can also be used for sending bundles whose
source is the indicated endpoint; all bundles sent via this SAP will be
subject to immediate destruction upon transmission, i.e., no bundle
addresses will be returned by bp_send() for use in tracking,
suspending/resuming, or cancelling transmission of these bundles.  On
success, places a value in I<*ionsapPtr> that can be supplied to future
bp function invocations and returns 0.  Returns -1 on any error.

=item int bp_open_source(char *eid, BpSAP *ionsapPtr, detain)

Opens the application's access to the BP endpoint identified by I<eid>,
so that the application can send bundles whose source is the indicated
endpoint.  If and only if the value of I<detain> is non-zero, citing this
SAP in an invocation of bp_send() will cause the address of the newly
issued bundle to be returned for use in tracking, suspending/resuming, or
cancelling transmission of this bundle.  B<USE THIS FEATURE WITH GREAT CARE:>
such a bundle will continue to occupy storage resources until it is
explicitly released by an invocation of bp_release() or until its time to
live expires, so bundle detention increases the risk of resource exhaustion.
(If the value of I<detain> is zero, all bundles sent via this SAP will be
subject to immediate destruction upon transmission.)  On success, places a
value in I<*ionsapPtr> that can be supplied to future bp function invocations
and returns 0.  Returns -1 on any error.

=item int bp_send(BpSAP sap, char *destEid, char *reportToEid, int lifespan, int classOfService, BpCustodySwitch custodySwitch, unsigned char srrFlags, int ackRequested, BpAncillaryData *ancillaryData, Object adu, Object *newBundle)

Sends a bundle to the endpoint identified by I<destEid>, from the
source endpoint as provided to the bp_open() call that returned I<sap>.
When I<sap> is NULL, the transmitted bundle is anonymous, i.e., the source
of the bundle is not identified.  This is legal, but anonymous bundles cannot
be uniquely identified; status reporting therefore cannot be requested for an
anonymous bundle.

I<reportToEid> identifies the endpoint to which any status reports
pertaining to this bundle will be sent; if NULL, defaults to the
source endpoint.

I<lifespan> is the maximum number of seconds that the bundle can remain
in-transit (undelivered) in the network prior to automatic deletion.

I<classOfService> is simply priority for now: BP_BULK_PRIORITY,
BP_STD_PRIORITY, or BP_EXPEDITED_PRIORITY.  If class-of-service flags
are defined in a future version of Bundle Protocol, those flags would be
OR'd with priority.

I<custodySwitch> indicates whether or not custody transfer is requested for
this bundle and, if so, whether or not the source node itself is required
to be the initial custodian.  The valid values are SourceCustodyRequired,
SourceCustodyOptional, NoCustodyRequired.  Note that custody transfer can
take effect only for segments of the end-to-end path that are traversed
using the Bundle-in-Bundle Encapsulation protocol at the "convergence layer";
however, requesting custody transfer is interpreted by ION as a request to
use "reliable" convergence-layer protocols over all segments of the end-to-end
path, whether implemented by custody transfer or not.

I<srrFlags>, if non-zero, is the logical OR of the status reporting behaviors
requested for this bundle: BP_RECEIVED_RPT, BP_FORWARDED_RPT, BP_DELIVERED_RPT,
BP_DELETED_RPT.

I<ackRequested> is a Boolean parameter indicating whether or not the recipient
application should be notified that the source application requests some sort
of application-specific end-to-end acknowledgment upon receipt of the bundle.

I<ancillaryData>, if not NULL, is used to populate the Extended Class Of
Service block for this bundle.  The block's I<ordinal> value is used to
provide fine-grained ordering within "expedited" traffic: ordinal values
from 0 (the default) to 254 (used to designate the most urgent traffic)
are valid, with 255 reserved for custody signals.  Note that the insertion
of application-specific extension blocks into the bundle, in addition to the
canonical extension blocks inserted automatically per the B<bpextensions.c>
file, may be requested by listing those blocks in the I<extensions> variable
of the I<ancillaryData> block.  The value of the block's I<flags> is the
logical OR of the applicable extended class-of-service flags:

=over 4

BP_MINIMUM_LATENCY designates the bundle as "critical" for the
purposes of Contact Graph Routing.

BP_BEST_EFFORT signifies that non-reliable convergence-layer protocols, as
available, may be used to transmit the bundle.  Notably, the bundle may be
sent as "green" data rather than "red" data when issued via LTP.

BP_DATA_LABEL_PRESENT signifies whether or not the value of I<dataLabel>
in I<ancillaryData> must be encoded into the ECOS block when the bundle is
transmitted.

=back

I<adu> is the "application data unit" that will be conveyed as the payload
of the new bundle.  I<adu> must be a "zero-copy object" (ZCO).  To ensure
orderly access to transmission buffer space for all applications, I<adu>
must be created by invoking ionCreateZco(), which may be configured either
to block so long as insufficient ZCO storage space is available for creation
of the requested ZCO or to fail immediately if insufficient ZCO storage space
is available.

The function returns 1 on success, 0 on user error, -1 on any system
error.  If 0 is returned, then an invalid argument value was passed to
bp_send(); a message to this effect will have been written to the log file.
If 1 is returned, then either the destination of the bundle was
"dtn:none" (the bit bucket) or the ADU has been accepted and queued for
transmission in a bundle.  In the latter case, if and only if I<sap> was
a reference to a BpSAP returned by an invocation of bp_open_source() that
had a non-zero value in the I<detain> parameter, then I<newBundle> must be
non-NULL and the address of the newly created bundle within the ION database
is placed in I<newBundle>.  This address can be used to track, suspend/resume,
or cancel transmission of the bundle.

=item int bp_track(Object bundle, Object trackingElt)

Adds I<trackingElt> to the list of "tracking" references in I<bundle>.
I<trackingElt> must be the address of an SDR list element -- whose data is
the address of this same bundle -- within some list of bundles that is
privately managed by the application.  Upon destruction of the bundle this
list element will automatically be deleted, thus removing the bundle from
the application's privately managed list of bundles.  This enables the
application to keep track of bundles that it is operating on without risk
of inadvertently de-referencing the address of a nonexistent bundle. 

=item void bp_untrack(Object bundle, Object trackingElt)

Removes I<trackingElt> from the list of "tracking" references in I<bundle>,
if it is in that list.  Does not delete I<trackingElt> itself.

=item int bp_suspend(Object bundle)

Suspends transmission of I<bundle>.  Has no effect if bundle is "critical"
(i.e., has got extended class of service BP_MINIMUM_LATENCY flag set) or
if the bundle is already suspended.  Otherwise, reverses the enqueuing of
the bundle to its selected transmission outduct and places it in the
"limbo" queue until the suspension is lifted by calling bp_resume.  Returns
0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int bp_resume(Object bundle)

Terminates suspension of transmission of I<bundle>.  Has no effect if
bundle is "critical" (i.e., has got extended class of service
BP_MINIMUM_LATENCY flag set) or is not suspended.  Otherwise, removes
the bundle from the "limbo" queue and queues it for route re-computation
and re-queuing.  Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int bp_cancel(Object bundle)

Cancels transmission of I<bundle>.  If the indicated bundle is currently
queued for forwarding, transmission, or retransmission, it is removed
from the relevant queue and destroyed exactly as if its Time To Live had
expired.  Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int bp_release(Object bundle)

Releases a detained bundle for destruction when all retention constraints
have been removed.  After a detained bundle has been released, the application
can no longer track, suspend/resume, or cancel its transmission.  Returns 0
on success, -1 on any error.

=item int bp_receive(BpSAP sap, BpDelivery *dlvBuffer, int timeoutSeconds)

Receives a bundle, or reports on some failure of bundle reception activity.

The "result" field of the dlvBuffer structure will be used to indicate the
outcome of the data reception activity.

If at least one bundle destined for the endpoint for which this SAP is
opened has not yet been delivered to the SAP, then the payload of the
oldest such bundle will be returned in I<dlvBuffer>->I<adu> and
I<dlvBuffer>->I<result> will be set to BpPayloadPresent.  If there is
no such bundle, bp_receive() blocks for up to I<timeoutSeconds> while
waiting for one to arrive.

If I<timeoutSeconds> is BP_POLL (i.e., zero) and no bundle is awaiting
delivery, or if I<timeoutSeconds> is greater than zero but no bundle
arrives before I<timeoutSeconds> have elapsed, then I<dlvBuffer>->I<result>
will be set to BpReceptionTimedOut.  If I<timeoutSeconds> is BP_BLOCKING
(i.e., -1) then bp_receive() blocks until either a bundle arrives or the
function is interrupted by an invocation of bp_interrupt().

I<dlvBuffer>->I<result> will be set to BpReceptionInterrupted in the event
that the calling process received and handled some signal other than SIGALRM
while waiting for a bundle.

I<dlvBuffer>->I<result> will be set to BpEndpointStopped in the event
that the operation of the indicated endpoint has been terminated.

The application data unit delivered in the data delivery structure, if
any, will be a "zero-copy object" reference.  Use zco reception functions
(see zco(3)) to read the content of the application data unit.

Be sure to call bp_release_delivery() after every successful invocation of
bp_receive().

The function returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item void bp_interrupt(BpSAP sap)

Interrupts a bp_receive() invocation that is currently blocked.  This
function is designed to be called from a signal handler; for this purpose,
I<sap> may need to be obtained from a static variable.

=item void bp_release_delivery(BpDelivery *dlvBuffer, int releaseAdu)

Releases resources allocated to the indicated delivery.  I<releaseAdu> is a
Boolean parameter: if non-zero, the ADU ZCO reference in I<dlvBuffer> (if
any) is destroyed, causing the ZCO itself to be destroyed if no other
references to it remain.

=item void bp_close(BpSAP sap)

Terminates the application's access to the BP endpoint identified by
the I<eid> cited by the indicated service access point.  The application
relinquishes its ability to take delivery of bundles destined for the
indicated endpoint and to send bundles whose source is the indicated
endpoint.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), lgsend(1), lgagent(1), bpextensions(3), bprc(5), lgfile(5)
