=head1 NAME

ionrestart - ION node restart utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ionrestart> [I<CFDP_UTA_command>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ionrestart> is a utility task that is executed automatically when an ION
transaction fails, provided transaction reversibility is enabled (see
ionconfig(5)).  It should never need to be executed from the command line.

When an ION transaction is reversed, all changes made to the SDR non-volatile
heap in the course of the transaction are backed out but changes made to ION's
working memory are not.  (Forward logging of these changes to enable
automatic reversal on these relatively rare occasions is judged to impose
too much continuous processing overhead to be cost-justified.)  Because the
state of working memory is thereupon in conflict with information in the heap,
B<ionrestart> is automatically invoked to reload all of working memory;
because this would obviously threaten the stability of all running ION tasks,
B<ionrestart> gracefully terminates all tasks of the node (not only all ION
daemons but also all applications), then reloads working memory from the
recovered heap, and finally restarts the ION daemons.  Applications that
receive termination indications from B<ionrestart> may choose to sleep for
a few seconds and then automatically re-initialize their own operations.

B<ionrestart> will attempt to restart all ION protocols including LTP, BP,
and CFDP, but any protocols which were not operating at the time of the
transaction reversal are not restarted.

Most operating parameters of B<ionrestart> are hard-coded, but the name of
the CFDP UT-layer adapter task may be provided as a command-line parameter;
this option is supported because that name is currently not provided in
the cfdprc(5) configuration file.  (Similar expedients are not needed for
LTP and BP, because their configuration files already provide the names of
all executables that need to be restarted.)  The default UTA command is
"bputa".  To override this, change the text of the B<ionrestart> command
provided to the sdr_load_profile() function invoked in ION initialization
(in the ion.c source file).

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<ionrestart> terminated normally.

=item "1"

B<ionrestart> failed, for reasons noted in the ion.log file; the task
terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are used beyond those required for normal ION
node initialization.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

ionadmin(1), ltpadmin(1), bpadmin(1), cfdpadmin(1)
