=head1 NAME

kapublish - DTKA user daemon task for publishing consensus public key information bulletins

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<kapublish>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<kapublish> is a background "daemon" task that receives bulletins multicast
by B<kacompile> daemons, resolves differences among the received bulletins
to arrive at a consensus bulletin, computes a hash for the consensus bulletin,
erasure-codes the consensus bulletin, and multicasts the subset of those
code blocks that is allocated to the local key authority function according
to its assigned position in the key authority array.  It is spawned
automatically by B<kaadmin> in response to the 's' command that starts
operation of the DTKA key authority function, and it is terminated by
B<kaadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<kapublish> terminated, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If this
termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<kaadmin> to restart B<kapublish>.

=item "1"

B<kapublish> was unable to attach to DTKA operations, probably because
B<kaadmin> has not yet been run.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item kapublish can't attach to DTKA.

B<kaadmin> has not yet initialized the DTKA user function.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

kaadmin(1), dtka(3), kauthrc(5)
