=head1 NAME

knadmin - DTKA node administration interface

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<knadmin> [ I<commands_filename> ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<knadmin> configures and manages the DTKA key administration access
database for the local ION node, enabling the node to utilize the services
of a DTKA distributed key authority.

It configures and manages that database in response to DTKA access
configuration commands found in I<commands_filename>, if provided; if not,
B<knadmin> prints a simple prompt (:) so that the user may type commands
directly into standard input.

The format of commands for I<commands_filename> can be queried from
B<knadmin> by entering the command 'h' or '?' at the prompt.  The
commands are documented in knoderc(5).

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

Successful completion of DTKA access administration.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item knadmin

Enter interactive DTKA access administration command entry mode.

=item knadmin host1.karc

Execute all configuration commands in I<host1.karc>, then terminate
immediately.

=back

=head1 FILES

Status and diagnostic messages from B<knadmin> and from other software that
utilizes the ION node are nominally written to a log file in the current
working directory within which B<knadmin> was run.  The log file is
typically named B<ion.log>.

See also knoderc(5).

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

B<Note>: all ION administration utilities expect source file input to be
lines of ASCII text that are NL-delimited.  If you edit the knoderc file on
a Windows machine, be sure to B<use dos2unix to convert it to Unix text format>
before presenting it to B<knadmin>.  Otherwise B<knadmin> will detect
syntax errors and will not function satisfactorily.

The following diagnostics may be issued to the log file:

=over 4

=item Can't open command file...

The I<commands_filename> specified in the command line doesn't exist.

=back

Various errors that don't cause B<knadmin> to fail but are noted in the
log file may be caused by improperly formatted commands given at the prompt
or in the I<commands_filename>.  Please see knoderc(5) for details.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

knmgr(1), knclock(1), knoderc(5)
