=head1 NAME

ltpsecrc - LTP security policy management commands file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

LTP security policy management commands are passed to B<ltpsecadmin> either
in a file of text lines or interactively at B<ltpsecadmin>'s command prompt
(:).  Commands are interpreted line-by line, with exactly one command per
line.  The formats and effects of the LTP security policy management commands
are described below.

=head1 COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<?>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<h> command.

=item B<#>

Comment line.  Lines beginning with B<#> are not interpreted.

=item B<e> { 1 | 0 }

Echo control.  Setting echo to 1 causes all output printed by ltpsecadmin to
be logged as well as sent to stdout.  Setting echo to 0 disables this behavior.

=item B<v> 

Version number.  Prints out the version of ION currently installed.  HINT:
combine with B<e 1> command to log the version number at startup.

=item B<a ltprecvauthrule> I<ltp_engine_id> I<ciphersuite_nbr> I<[key_name]>

The B<add ltprecvauthrule> command.  This command adds a rule specifying the
manner in which LTP segment authentication will be applied to LTP segments
received from the indicated LTP engine.

A segment from the indicated LTP engine will only be deemed authentic if it
contains an authentication extension computed via the ciphersuite identified
by I<ciphersuite_nbr> using the applicable key value.  If I<ciphersuite_nbr>
is 255 then the applicable key value is a hard-coded constant and I<key_name>
must be omitted; otherwise I<key_name> is required and the applicable key
value is the current value of the key named I<key_name> in the local security
policy database.

Valid values of I<ciphersuite_nbr> are:

=over 4

0: HMAC-SHA1-80
1: RSA-SHA256
255: NULL

=back

=item B<c ltprecvauthrule> I<ltp_engine_id> I<ciphersuite_nbr> I<[key_name]>

The B<change ltprecvauthrule> command.  This command changes the parameters
of the LTP segment authentication rule for the indicated LTP engine. 

=item B<d ltprecvauthrule> I<ltp_engine_id>

The B<delete ltprecvauthrule> command.  This command deletes the LTP segment
authentication rule for the indicated LTP engine.

=item B<i ltprecvauthrule> I<ltp_engine_id>

This command will print information (the LTP engine id, ciphersuite
number, and key name) about the LTP segment authentication rule for the
indicated LTP engine.

=item B<l ltprecvauthrule>

This command lists all LTP segment authentication rules in the security policy
database.

=item B<a ltpxmitauthrule> I<ltp_engine_id> I<ciphersuite_nbr> I<[key_name]>

The B<add ltpxmitauthrule> command.  This command adds a rule specifying the
manner in which LTP segments transmitted to the indicated LTP engine must be
signed.

Signing a segment destined for the indicated LTP engine entails computing an
authentication extension via the ciphersuite identified by I<ciphersuite_nbr>
using the applicable key value.  If I<ciphersuite_nbr> is 255 then the
applicable key value is a hard-coded constant and I<key_name> must be
omitted; otherwise I<key_name> is required and the applicable key
value is the current value of the key named I<key_name> in the local security
policy database.

Valid values of I<ciphersuite_nbr> are:

=over 4

0: HMAC_SHA1-80
1: RSA_SHA256
255: NULL

=back

=item B<c ltpxmitauthrule> I<ltp_engine_id> I<ciphersuite_nbr> I<[key_name]>

The B<change ltpxmitauthrule> command.  This command changes the parameters
of the LTP segment signing rule for the indicated LTP engine. 

=item B<d ltpxmitauthrule> I<ltp_engine_id>

The B<delete ltpxmitauthrule> command.  This command deletes the LTP segment
signing rule for the indicated LTP engine.

=item B<i ltpxmitauthrule> I<ltp_engine_id>

This command will print information (the LTP engine id, ciphersuite
number, and key name) about the LTP segment signing rule for the indicated
LTP engine.

=item B<l ltpxmitauthrule>

This command lists all LTP segment signing rules in the security policy
database.

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<?> command.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

ltpsecadmin(1)
