=head1 NAME

acsadmin - ION Aggregate Custody Signal (ACS) administration interface

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<acsadmin> [ I<commands_filename> ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<acsadmin> configures aggregate custody signal behavior for the local ION
node.
	
It operates in response to ACS configuration commands found in the file
I<commands_filename>, if provided; if not, B<acsadmin> prints
a simple prompt (:) so that the user may type commands
directly into standard input.

The format of commands for I<commands_filename> can be queried from B<acsadmin>
with the 'h' or '?' commands at the prompt.  The commands are documented in
acsrc(5).

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"
Successful completion of ACS administration.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item acsadmin

Enter interactive ACS configuration command entry mode.

=item acsadmin host1.acs

Execute all configuration commands in I<host1.acs>, then terminate immediately.

=back

=head1 FILES

See acsrc(5) for details of the ACS configuration commands.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

B<Note>: all ION administration utilities expect source file input to be
lines of ASCII text that are NL-delimited.  If you edit the acsrc file on
a Windows machine, be sure to B<use dos2unix to convert it to Unix text format>
before presenting it to B<acsadmin>.  Otherwise B<acsadmin> will detect syntax
errors and will not function satisfactorily.

The following diagnostics may be issued to the logfile ion.log:

=over 4

=item acsadmin can't attach to ION.

There is no SDR data store for I<acsadmin> to use.  You should run ionadmin(1)
first, to set up an SDR data store for ION.

=item Can't open command file...

The I<commands_filename> specified in the command line doesn't exist.

=back

Various errors that don't cause B<acsadmin> to fail but are noted in the
B<ion.log> log file may be caused by improperly formatted commands
given at the prompt or in the I<commands_filename> file.
Please see acsrc(5) for details.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

ionadmin(1), bpadmin(1), acsrc(5)
