=head1 NAME

acslist - Aggregate Custody Signals (ACS) utility for checking custody IDs.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<acslist> [I<-s|--stdout>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<acslist> is a utility program that lists all mappings from bundle ID to
custody ID currently in the local bundle agent's ACS ID database, in no
specific order.  A bundle ID (defined in RFC5050) is the tuple of
(source EID, creation time, creation count, fragment offset, fragment length).
A custody ID (defined in draft-jenkins-aggregate-custody-signals) is an
integer that the local bundle agent will be able to map to a bundle ID for
the purposes of aggregating and compressing custody signals.

The format for mappings is:

(ipn:13.1,333823688,95,0,0)->(26)

While listing, B<acslist> also checks the custody ID database for
self-consistency, and if it detects any errors it will print a line starting
with "Mismatch:" and describing the error.

I<-s|--stdout> tells B<acslist> to print results to stdout, rather than to
the ION log.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<acslist> terminated after verifying the consistency of the custody ID database.

=item "1"

B<acslist> was unable to attach to the ACS database, or it detected an
inconsistency.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued:

=over 4

=item Can't attach to ACS.

B<acsadmin> has not yet initialized ACS operations.

=item Mismatch: (description of the mismatch)

B<acslist> detected an inconsistency in the database; this is a bug in ACS.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

acsadmin(1), bplist(1)
