=head1 NAME

bpchat - Bundle Protocol chat test program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bpchat> I<sourceEID> I<destEID> [ct]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bpchat> uses Bundle Protocol to send input text in bundles, and display the
payload of received bundles as output.  It is similar to the L<talk> utility,
but operates over the Bundle Protocol.  It operates like a combination of the
L<bpsource> and L<bpsink> utilities in one program (unlike L<bpsource>, 
B<bpchat> emits bundles with a I<sourceEID>).

If the I<sourceEID> and I<destEID> are both B<bpchat> applications, then two
users can chat with each other over the Bundle Protocol: lines that one user
types on the keyboard will be transported over the network in bundles and
displayed on the screen of the other user (and the reverse).

B<bpchat> terminates upon receiving the SIGQUIT signal, i.e., ^C from the
keyboard.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bpchat> has terminated normally.  Any problems encountered during operation
will be noted in the B<ion.log> log file.

=item "1"

B<bpchat> has terminated due to a BP transmit or reception failure.  Details
should be noted in the B<ion.log> log file.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item [ct]

If the string "ct" is appended as the last argument, then bundles will be sent
with custody transfer requested.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Diagnostic messages produced by B<bpchat> are written to the ION log
file I<ion.log>.

=over 4

=item Can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item Can't open own endpoint.

Another application has already opened I<ownEndpointId>.  Terminate that
application and rerun.

=item bpchat bundle reception failed.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item No space for ZCO extent.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item Can't create ZCO.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item bpchat can't send echo bundle.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpecho(1), bpsource(1), bpsink(1), bp(3)
