=head1 NAME

bpclm - DTN bundle protocol convergence layer management daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bpclm> I<neighboring_node_ID>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bpclm> is a background "daemon" task that manages the transmission of
bundles to a single designated neighboring node (as constrained by an
"egress plan" data structure for that node) by one or more convergence-layer
(CL) adapter output daemons (via buffer structures called "outducts").

B<bpclm> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's' (START)
command that starts operation of the Bundle Protocol, and it is terminated by
B<bpadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.  B<bpclm> can also be
spawned and terminated in response to commands that START and STOP the
corresponding node's egress plan.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bpclm> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bpadmin> to restart the egress plan for this node.

=item "1"

B<bpclm> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart the egress plan for this node.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item bpclm can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item No egress plan for this node

No egress plan for the node identified by I<neighboring_node_ID> has been
added to the BP database.  Use B<bpadmin> to add and start the plan.

=item bpclm task is already started for this node

Redundant initiation of B<bpclm>.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bprc(5)
