=head1 NAME

bpdriver - Bundle Protocol transmission test program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bpdriver> I<nbrOfCycles> I<ownEndpointId> I<destinationEndpointId> [I<length>] [tI<TTL>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bpdriver> uses Bundle Protocol to send I<nbrOfCycles> application data
units of length indicated by I<length>, to a counterpart application task
that has opened the BP endpoint identified by I<destinationEndpointId>.

If omitted, I<length> defaults to 60000.  

I<TTL> indicates the number of seconds the bundles may remain in the
network, undelivered, before they are automatically destroyed. If omitted, I<TTL>
defaults to 300 seconds.

B<bpdriver> normally runs in "echo" mode: after sending each bundle it
waits for an acknowledgment bundle before sending the next one.  For this
purpose, the counterpart application task should be B<bpecho>.

Alternatively B<bpdriver> can run in "streaming" mode, i.e., without
expecting or receiving acknowledgments.  Streaming mode is enabled when
I<length> is specified as a negative number, in which case the additive
inverse of I<length> is used as the effective value of I<length>.  For
this purpose, the counterpart application task should be B<bpcounter>.

If the effective value of I<length> is 1, the sizes of the transmitted
service data units will be randomly selected multiples of 1024 in the
range 1024 to 62464.

B<bpdriver> normally runs with custody transfer disabled.  To request
custody transfer for all bundles sent by B<bpdriver>, specify I<nbrOfCycles>
as a negative number; the additive inverse of I<nbrOfCycles> will be used
as its effective value in this case.

When all copies of the file have been sent, B<bpdriver> prints a performance
report.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bpdriver> has terminated.  Any problems encountered during operation
will be noted in the B<ion.log> log file.

=back

=head1 FILES

The service data units transmitted by B<bpdriver> are sequences of text
obtained from a file in the current working directory named "bpdriverAduFile",
which B<bpdriver> creates automatically.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Diagnostic messages produced by B<bpdriver> are written to the ION log
file I<ion.log>.

=over 4

=item Can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item Can't open own endpoint.

Another application has already opened I<ownEndpointId>.  Terminate that
application and rerun.

=item Can't create ADU file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item Error writing to ADU file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item bpdriver can't create file ref.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item bpdriver can't create ZCO.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item bpdriver can't send message

Bundle Protocol service to the remote endpoint has been stopped.

=item bpdriver reception failed

B<bpdriver> is in "echo" mode, and Bundle Protocol delivery service
has been stopped.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bpcounter(1), bpecho(1), bp(3)
