=head1 NAME

bping - Send and receive Bundle Protocol echo bundles.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bping> [B<-c> I<count>] [B<-i> I<interval>] [B<-p> I<priority>] [B<-q> I<wait>] [B<-r> I<flags>] [B<-t> I<ttl>] I<srcEID> I<destEID> [I<reporttoEID>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bping> sends bundles from I<srcEID> to I<destEID>.  If the I<destEID> echoes
the bundles back (for instance, it is a B<bpecho> endpoint), B<bping> will
print the round-trip time.  When complete, bping will print statistics before
exiting.  It is very similar to B<ping>, except it works with the bundle
protocol.

B<bping> terminates when one of the following happens: it receives the SIGINT
signal (Ctrl+C), it receives responses to all of the bundles it sent, or it has
sent all I<count> of its bundles and waited I<wait> seconds.

When B<bping> is executed in a VxWorks or RTEMS environment, its runtime
arguments are presented positionally rather than by keyword, in this order:
count, interval, priority, wait, flags, TTL, verbosity (a Boolean, defaulting
to zero), source EID, destination EID, report-to EID.

Source EID and destination EID are always required.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

These exit statuses are taken from B<ping>.

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bping> has terminated normally, and received responses to all the packets it
sent.

=item "1"

B<bping> has terminated normally, but it did not receive responses to all the
packets it sent.

=item "2"

B<bping> has terminated due to an error.  Details should be noted in the
B<ion.log> log file.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Diagnostic messages produced by B<bping> are written to the ION log file
I<ion.log> and printed to standard error.  Diagnostic messages that don't cause
B<bping> to terminate indicate a failure parsing an echo response bundle.  This
means that I<destEID> isn't an echo endpoint: it's responding with some other
bundle message of an unexpected format.

=over 4

=item Can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item Can't open own endpoint.

Another application has already opened I<ownEndpointId>.  Terminate that
application and rerun.

=item bping bundle reception failed.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item No space for ZCO extent.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item Can't create ZCO.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item bping can't send echo bundle.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpecho(1), bptrace(1), bpadmin(1), bp(3), ping(8)
