=head1 NAME

bpsendtest - Bundle Protocol (BP) file-based throughput testing utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bpsendtest> [-rep I<repetitions>] [-ttl I<ttl>] [-qos I<qos>] [-nofile] I<srcEid> I<destEid> I<file>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<NOTE: THIS UTILITY IS FOR TESTING PURPOSES ONLY>

B<bpsendtest> is a modified variant of B<bpsendfile> and is intended 
to serve as the counterpart to B<bprecvtest>. 
It first generates a minimal bundle with the contents "Go" to serve 
as a pilot bundle and inform B<bprecvtest> to begin its timer.
If -nofile is not specified, it then creates a bundle from the supplied 
file identified by I<file> and sends that bundle a number of times 
equal to I<repetitions> to the endpoint specified by I<destEid>. 
If -nofile is specified, I<file> is interpreted to be an integer describing the number 
of bytes to generate and send as a bundle.
The bundle is sent once if I<repetitions> is not supplied.

The bundle is sent with no custody transfer
requested.  When I<qos> is omitted, the bundle is sent at
standard priority; for details of the I<qos> parameter,
see bptrace(1) or run C<bpsendtest -h>.  I<ttl>, if not specified, defaults to 300
seconds (5 minutes).  B<NOTE> that the final three arguments B<MUST>
be I<srcEid> I<destEid> I<file> in their respective order.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bpsendtest> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item Can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized BP operations.

=item Can't open own endpoint.

Another BP application task currently has I<srcEid> open for
bundle origination and reception.  Try again after that task has terminated.
If no such task exists, it may have crashed while still holding the endpoint
open; the easiest workaround is to select a different source endpoint.

=item Can't stat the file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item bpsendtest can't create file ref.

Probably an unrecoverable database error, in which case the local ION
node must be terminated and re-initialized.

=item bpsendtest can't create ZCO.

Probably an unrecoverable database error, in which case the local ION
node must be terminated and re-initialized.

=item bpsendtest can't send file in bundle.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the
cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bprecvtest(1), bpsendfile(1), bp(3)
