=head1 NAME

bpsendfile - Bundle Protocol (BP) file transmission utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bpsendfile> I<own_endpoint_ID> I<destination_endpoint_ID> I<file_name> [I<class_of_service> [I<time_to_live (seconds)> ]]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bpsendfile> uses bp_send() to issue a single bundle to a designated
destination endpoint, containing the contents of the file identified by
I<file_name>, then terminates.  The bundle is sent with no custody transfer
requested.  When I<class_of_service> is omitted, the bundle is sent at
standard priority; for details of the I<class_of_service> parameter,
see bptrace(1).  I<time_to_live>, if not specified, defaults to 300
seconds (5 minutes).  B<NOTE> that I<time_to_live> is specified B<AFTER>
I<class_of_service>, rather than before it as in bptrace(1).

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bpsendfile> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item Can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized BP operations.

=item Can't open own endpoint.

Another BP application task currently has I<own_endpoint_ID> open for
bundle origination and reception.  Try again after that task has terminated.
If no such task exists, it may have crashed while still holding the endpoint
open; the easiest workaround is to select a different source endpoint.

=item Can't stat the file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item bpsendfile can't create file ref.

Probably an unrecoverable database error, in which case the local ION
node must be terminated and re-initialized.

=item bpsendfile can't create ZCO.

Probably an unrecoverable database error, in which case the local ION
node must be terminated and re-initialized.

=item bpsendfile can't send file in bundle.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the
cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bprecvfile(1), bp(3)
