=head1 NAME

bpsink - Bundle Protocol reception test program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bpsink> I<ownEndpointId>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bpsink> uses Bundle Protocol to receive application data units from a
remote B<bpsource> application task.  For each application data unit it
receives, it prints the ADU's length and -- if length is less than 80 -- its
text.

B<bpsink> terminates upon receiving the SIGQUIT signal, i.e., ^C from the
keyboard.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bpsink> has terminated.  Any problems encountered during operation
will be noted in the B<ion.log> log file.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Diagnostic messages produced by B<bpsink> are written to the ION log
file I<ion.log>.

=over 4

=item Can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item Can't open own endpoint.

Another application has already opened I<ownEndpointId>.  Terminate that
application and rerun.

=item bpsink bundle reception failed.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item Can't receive payload.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item Can't handle delivery.

BP system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bpsource(1), bp(3)
