=head1 NAME

dgrcli - DGR-based BP convergence layer reception task

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dgrcli> I<local_hostname>[:I<local_port_nbr>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<dgrcli> is a background "daemon" task that handles DGR convergence layer
protocol input.

The daemon receives DGR messages via a UDP socket bound to
I<local_hostname> and I<local_port_nbr>, extracts bundles from those
messages, and passes them to the bundle protocol agent on the local ION node.
(I<local_port_nbr> defaults to 1113 if not specified.)

B<dgrcli> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's' (START)
command that starts operation of the Bundle Protocol, and it is terminated by
B<bpadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.  B<dgrcli> can also be
spawned and terminated in response to START and STOP commands that pertain
specifically to the DGR convergence layer protocol.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<dgrcli> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bpadmin> to restart B<dgrcli>.

=item "1"

B<dgrcli> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart B<dgrcli>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item dgrcli can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item No such dgr induct.

No DGR induct with duct name matching I<local_hostname> and I<local_port_nbr>
has been added to the BP database.  Use B<bpadmin> to stop the DGR
convergence-layer protocol, add the induct, and then restart the DGR protocol.

=item CLI task is already started for this engine.

Redundant initiation of B<dgrcli>.

=item Can't get IP address for host

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart DGR.

=item dgrcli can't open DGR service access point.

DGR system error.  Check prior messages in B<ion.log> log file, correct
problem, and then stop and restart the DGR protocol.

=item dgrcli can't create receiver thread

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart DGR.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bprc(5)
