=head1 NAME

dtn2admin - baseline "dtn" scheme administration interface

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dtn2admin> [ I<commands_filename> ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<dtn2admin> configures the local ION node's routing of bundles to endpoints
whose IDs conform to the I<dtn> endpoint ID scheme.  I<dtn> is a
non-CBHE-conformant scheme.  The structure of I<dtn> endpoint IDs remains
somewhat in flux at the time of this writing, but endpoint IDs in the I<dtn>
scheme historically have been strings of the form
"dtn://I<node_name>[/I<demux_token>]", where I<node_name>
normally identifies a computer somewhere on the network and I<demux_token>
normally identifies a specific application processing point.  Although
the I<dtn> endpoint ID scheme imposes more transmission overhead than the
I<ipn> scheme, ION provides support for I<dtn> endpoint IDs to enable
interoperation with other implementations of Bundle Protocol.

B<dtn2admin> operates in response to "dtn" scheme configuration commands found
in the file I<commands_filename>, if provided; if not, B<dtn2admin> prints
a simple prompt (:) so that the user may type commands
directly into standard input.

The format of commands for I<commands_filename> can be queried from B<dtn2admin>
with the 'h' or '?' commands at the prompt.  The commands are documented in
dtn2rc(5).

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"
Successful completion of "dtn" scheme administration.

=item "1"
Unsuccessful completion of "dtn" scheme administration, due to inability to
attach to the Bundle Protocol system or to initialize the "dtn" scheme.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item dtn2admin

Enter interactive "dtn" scheme configuration command entry mode.

=item dtn2admin host1.dtn2rc

Execute all configuration commands in I<host1.dtn2rc>, then terminate
immediately.

=back

=head1 FILES

See dtn2rc(5) for details of the DTN scheme configuration commands.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

B<Note>: all ION administration utilities expect source file input to be
lines of ASCII text that are NL-delimited.  If you edit the dtn2rc file on
a Windows machine, be sure to B<use dos2unix to convert it to Unix text format>
before presenting it to B<dtn2admin>.  Otherwise B<dtn2admin> will detect syntax
errors and will not function satisfactorily.

The following diagnostics may be issued to the logfile ion.log:

=over 4

=item dtn2admin can't attach to BP.

Bundle Protocol has not been initialized on this computer.  You need to run
bpadmin(1) first.

=item dtn2admin can't initialize routing database.

There is no SDR data store for I<dtn2admin> to use.  Please run ionadmin(1)
to start the local ION node.

=item Can't open command file...

The I<commands_filename> specified in the command line doesn't exist.

=back

Various errors that don't cause B<dtn2admin> to fail but are noted in the
B<ion.log> log file may be caused by improperly formatted commands
given at the prompt or in the I<commands_filename> file.
Please see dtn2rc(5) for details.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

dtn2rc(5)
