=head1 NAME

lgsend - ION Load/Go command program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<lgsend> I<command_file_name> I<own_endpoint_ID> I<destination_endpoint_ID>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ION Load/Go is a system for management of an ION-based network, enabling the
execution of ION administrative programs at remote nodes.  The system
comprises two programs, B<lgsend> and B<lgagent>.

The B<lgsend> program reads a Load/Go source file from a local file system,
encapsulates the text of that source file in a bundle, and sends the bundle
to an B<lgagent> task that is waiting for data at a designated DTN endpoint
on the remote node.

To do so, it first reads all lines of the Load/Go source file identified
by I<command_file_name> into a temporary buffer in ION's SDR data store,
concatenating the lines of the file and retaining all newline characters.
Then it invokes the bp_send() function to create and send a bundle whose
payload is this temporary buffer, whose destination is
I<destination_endpoint_ID>, and whose source endpoint ID is
I<own_endpoint_ID>.  Then it terminates.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

Load/Go file transmission succeeded.

=item "1"

Load/Go file transmission failed.  Examine B<ion.log> to determine the
cause of the failure, then re-run.

=back

=head1 FILES

B<lgfile> contains the Load/Go file capsules and directive that are to
be sent to the remote node.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item lgsend: can't attach to BP.

Bundle Protocol is not running on this computer.  Run bpadmin(1) to start BP.

=item lgsend: can't open own endpoint.

I<own_endpoint_ID> is not a declared endpoint on the local ION node.
Run bpadmin(1) to add it.

=item lgsend: can't open file of LG commands: I<error description>

I<command_file_name> doesn't identify a file that can be opened.  Correct
spelling of file name or file's access permissions.

=item lgsend: can't get size of LG command file: I<error description>

Operating system problem.  Investigate and correct before rerunning.

=item lgsend: LG cmd file size > 64000.

Load/Go command file is too large.  Split it into multiple files if possible.

=item lgsend: no space for application data unit.

ION system problem: have exhausted available SDR data store reserves.

=item lgsend: fgets failed: I<error description>

Operating system problem.  Investigate and correct before rerunning.

=item lgsend: can't create application data unit.

ION system problem: have exhausted available SDR data store reserves.

=item lgsend: can't send bundle.

ION system problem.  Investigate and correct before rerunning.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

lgagent(1), lgfile(5)
