=head1 NAME

ltpcli - LTP-based BP convergence layer input task

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ltpcli> I<local_node_nbr>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ltpcli> is a background "daemon" task that receives LTP data transmission
blocks, extracts bundles from the received blocks, and passes them to the
bundle protocol agent on the local ION node.

B<ltpcli> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's'
(START) command that starts operation of the Bundle Protocol; the text
of the command that is used to spawn the task must be provided at the
time the "ltp" convergence layer protocol is added to the BP database.
The convergence layer input task is terminated by B<bpadmin> in
response to an 'x' (STOP) command.  B<ltpcli> can also be spawned and
terminated in response to START and STOP commands that pertain specifically
to the LTP convergence layer protocol.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<ltpcli> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bpadmin> to restart B<ltpcli>.

=item "1"

B<ltpcli> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart B<ltpcli>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item ltpcli can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item No such ltp duct.

No LTP induct matching I<local_node_nbr> has been added to the BP
database.  Use B<bpadmin> to stop the LTP convergence-layer protocol,
add the induct, and then restart the LTP protocol.

=item CLI task is already started for this duct.

Redundant initiation of B<ltpcli>.

=item ltpcli can't initialize LTP.

B<ltpadmin> has not yet initialized LTP operations.

=item ltpcli can't open client access.

Another task has already opened the client service for BP over LTP.

=item ltpcli can't create receiver thread

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart LTP.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bprc(5), ltpadmin(1), ltprc(5), ltpclo(1)
