=head1 NAME

sstcpcli - DTN simple TCP convergence layer input task

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<stcpcli> I<local_hostname>[:I<local_port_nbr>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<stcpcli> is a background "daemon" task comprising 1 + N threads: one that
handles TCP connections from remote B<stcpclo> tasks, spawning sockets for
data reception from those tasks, plus one input thread for each spawned
socket to handle data reception over that socket.

The connection thread simply accepts connections on a TCP socket bound to
I<local_hostname> and I<local_port_nbr> and spawns reception threads.  The
default value for I<local_port_nbr>, if omitted, is 4556.

Each reception thread receives bundles over the associated connected socket.
Each bundle received on the connection is preceded by a 32-bit unsigned
integer in network byte order indicating the length of the bundle.  The
received bundles are passed to the bundle protocol agent on the local ION node.

B<stcpcli> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's'
(START) command that starts operation of the Bundle Protocol; the text
of the command that is used to spawn the task must be provided at the
time the "stcp" convergence layer protocol is added to the BP database.
The convergence layer input task is terminated by B<bpadmin> in
response to an 'x' (STOP) command.  B<stcpcli> can also be spawned and
terminated in response to START and STOP commands that pertain specifically
to the STCP convergence layer protocol.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<stcpcli> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bpadmin> to restart B<stcpcli>.

=item "1"

B<stcpcli> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart B<stcpcli>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item stcpcli can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item No such stcp duct.

No STCP induct matching I<local_hostname> and I<local_port_nbr> has been added
to the BP database.  Use B<bpadmin> to stop the STCP convergence-layer
protocol, add the induct, and then restart the STCP protocol.

=item CLI task is already started for this duct.

Redundant initiation of B<stcpcli>.

=item Can't get IP address for host

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart STCP.

=item Can't open TCP socket

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart STCP.

=item Can't initialize socket

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart STCP.

=item stcpcli can't create access thread

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart STCP.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bprc(5), stcpclo(1)
