=head1 NAME

tcpclo - DTN TCPCL-compliant convergence layer adapter output task

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<tcpclo> I<remote_hostname>[:I<remote_port_nbr>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<tcpclo> is a background "daemon" task that connects to a remote node's
TCP socket at I<remote_hostname> and I<remote_port_nbr>.  It sends
a contact header, and it records the acknowledgement flag, reactive
fragmentation flag and negative acknowledgements flag in the contact
header it receives from its peer B<tcpcli> task.  It then begins
extracting bundles from the queues of bundles ready for transmission via
TCP to this remote bundle protocol agent and transmitting those bundles
over the connected socket to that node.  Each transmitted bundle is
preceded by message type, segmentation flags, and an SDNV indicating the
size of the bundle (in bytes).

If not specified, I<remote_port_nbr> defaults to 4556.

B<tcpclo> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's' (START)
command that starts operation of the Bundle Protocol, and it is terminated by
B<bpadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.  B<tcpclo> can also be
spawned and terminated in response to START and STOP commands that pertain
specifically to the TCP convergence layer protocol.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<tcpclo> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bpadmin> to restart the TCPCL protocol.

=item "1"

B<tcpclo> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart the TCPCL protocol.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item tcpclo can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item No such tcp duct.

No TCP outduct with duct name matching I<remote_hostname> and
I<remote_port_nbr> has been added to the BP database.  Use B<bpadmin> to
stop the TCP convergence-layer protocol, add the outduct, and then restart the
TCP protocol.

=item CLO task is already started for this duct.

Redundant initiation of B<tcpclo>.

=item Can't get IP address for host

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart TCP.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bprc(5), tcpcli(1)
