=head1 NAME

amsbenchs - Asynchronous Message Service (AMS) benchmarking driver

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<amsbenchs> I<count> I<size>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<amsbenchs> is a test program that simply publishes I<count> messages of
I<size> bytes each on subject "bench", then waits while all published
messages are transmitted, terminating when the user uses ^C to interrupt
the program.  The remaining number of messages to be published in the test
is written into the first four octets of each message.

B<amsbenchs> will register as an application module in the root unit of
the venture identified by application name "amsdemo" and authority name
"test".  A configuration server for the local continuum and a registrar
for the root unit of that venture (which may both be instantiated in a
single B<amsd> daemon task) must be running in order for B<amsbenchs> to
commence operations.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item -1

B<amsbenchs> failed, for reasons noted in the ion.log file.

=item "0"

B<amsbenchs> terminated normally.

=back

=head1 FILES

A MIB initialization file with the applicable default name (see amsrc(5))
must be present.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item No memory for amsbenchs.

Insufficient available memory for a message content buffer of the
indicated size.

=item amsbenchs can't register.

B<amsbenchs> failed to register, for reasons noted in the ion.log file.

=item amsbenchs can't set event manager.

B<amsbenchs> failed to start its background event management thread, for
reasons noted in the ion.log file.

=item amsbenchs: subject 'bench' is unknown.

B<amsbenchs> can't publish test messages; probably an error in the MIB
initialization file.

=item amsbenchs can't publish message.

B<amsbenchs> failed to publish, for reasons noted in the ion.log file.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

amsrc(5)
