=head1 NAME

amsbenchr - Asynchronous Message Service (AMS) benchmarking meter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<amsbenchr>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<amsbenchr> is a test program that simply subscribes to subject "bench"
and receives messages published by B<amsbenchs> until all messages in the
test - as indicated by the count of remaining messages, in in the first
four bytes of each message - have been received.  Then it stops receiving
messages, calculates and prints performance statistics, and terminates.

B<amsbenchr> will register as an application module in the root unit of
the venture identified by application name "amsdemo" and authority name
"test".  A configuration server for the local continuum and a registrar
for the root unit of that venture (which may both be instantiated in a
single B<amsd> daemon task) must be running in order for B<amsbenchr> to
commence operations.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item -1

B<amsbenchr> failed, for reasons noted in the ion.log file.

=item "0"

B<amsbenchr> terminated normally.

=back

=head1 FILES

A MIB initialization file with the applicable default name (see amsrc(5))
must be present.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item amsbenchr can't register.

B<amsbenchr> failed to register, for reasons noted in the ion.log file.

=item amsbenchr: subject 'bench' is unknown.

B<amsbenchr> can't subscribe to test messages; probably an error in the MIB
initialization file.

=item amsbenchr can't subscribe.

B<amsbenchr> failed to subscribe, for reasons noted in the ion.log file.

=item amsbenchr can't get event.

B<amsbenchr> failed to receive a message, for reasons noted in the ion.log file.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

amsrc(5)
