=head1 NAME

amssub - Asynchronous Message Service (AMS) test message receiver for VxWorks

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<amssub> "I<application_name>", "I<authority_name>", "I<subject_name>"

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<amssub> is a message reception program designed to test AMS functionality
in a VxWorks environment.  When an B<amssub> task is started, it registers
as an application module in the root unit of the venture identified by
I<application_name> and I<authority_name>, looks up the subject number for
I<subject_name>, subscribes to that subject, and begins receiving and
printing messages on that subject until terminated by B<amsstop>.

A configuration server for the local continuum and a registrar for the root
unit of the indicated venture (which may both be instantiated in a single
B<amsd> daemon task) must be running in order for B<amssub> to run.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item -1

B<amssub> terminated with an error as noted in the ion.log file.

=item "0"

B<amssub> terminated normally.

=back

=head1 FILES

The B<amssub> source code is in the amspubsub.c source file.

A MIB initialization file with the applicable default name (see amsrc(5))
must be present.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over

=item amssub can't register.

B<amssub> failed to register, for reasons noted in the ion.log file.

=item amssub: subject is unknown

B<amssub> can't subscribe to messages on the specified subject; possibly
an error in the MIB initialization file.

=item amssub can't subscribe.

B<amssub> failed to subscribe, for reasons noted in the ion.log file.

=item amssub can't get event.

B<amssub> failed to receive message, for reasons noted in the ion.log file.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

amspub(1), amsrc(5)
