=head1 NAME

brsscla - BRSS-based BP convergence layer adapter (input and output) task

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<brsscla> I<local_hostname>[:I<local_port_nbr>][ I<first_duct_nbr_in_scope>[ I<last_duct_nbr_in_scope>]]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

BRSS is the "server" side of the Bundle Relay Service (BRS) convergence
layer protocol for BP.  It is complemented by BRSC, the "client" side of
the BRS convergence layer protocol for BP.

B<brsscla> is a background "daemon" task that spawns two plus N threads:
one that handles BRSS client connections and spawns sockets for continued data
interchange with connected clients; one that handles BRSS protocol output
by transmitting over those spawned sockets to the associated clients; and
one input thread for each spawned socket, to handle BRSS protocol input from 
the associated connected client.

The connection thread simply accepts connections on a TCP socket bound to
I<local_hostname> and I<local_port_nbr> and spawns reception threads.  The
default value for I<local_port_nbr>, if omitted, is 80.

Each reception thread receives over the socket connection the node number
of the connecting client (in SDNV representation), followed by a 32-bit time
tag and a 160-bit HMAC-SHA1 digest of that time tag.  The node number must
be in the range I<first_duct_nbr_in_scope> through I<last_duct_nbr_in_scope>
inclusive; when omitted, I<first_duct_nbr_in_scope> defaults to 1 and
I<last_duct_nbr_in_scope> defaults to I<first_duct_nbr_in_scope> plus 255.
The receiving thread also checks the time tag, requiring that it differ from
the current time by no more than BRSTERM (default value 5) seconds.  It then
recomputes the digest
value using the HMAC-SHA1 key named "I<node_number>.brs" as recorded in the
ION security database (see ionsecrc(5)), requiring that the supplied and
computed digests be identical.  If all registration conditions are met, the
receiving thread sends the client a countersign -- a similarly computed
HMAC-SHA1 digest, for the time tag that is 1 second later than the provided
time tag -- to assure the client of its own authenticity, then commences
receiving bundles over the connected socket.  Each bundle received on the
connection is preceded by its length, a 32-bit unsigned integer in network
byte order.  The received bundles are passed to the bundle protocol agent
on the local ION node.

The output thread extracts bundles from the queues of bundles ready for
transmission via BRSS to remote bundle protocol agents, finds the connected
clients whose node numbers match the proximate receiver node numbers assigned
to the bundles by the routing daemons that enqueued them, and transmits the
bundles over the sockets to those clients.  Each transmitted bundle is
preceded by its length, a 32-bit unsigned integer in network byte order.

Note that B<brsscla> is a "promiscuous" convergence layer daemon, able to
transmit bundles to any BRSS destination induct for which it has received
a connection.  Its sole outduct's name is the name of the corresponding induct,
rather than the induct name of any single BRSS destination induct to which the
outduct might be dedicated, so scheme configuration directives that cite this
outduct must provide destination induct IDs.  For the BRS convergence-layer
protocol, destination induct IDs are simply the node numbers of connected
clients.

B<brsscla> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's' (START)
command that starts operation of the Bundle Protocol, and it is terminated by
B<bpadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.  B<brsscla> can also be
spawned and terminated in response to START and STOP commands that pertain
specifically to the BRSS convergence layer protocol.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item 0

B<brsscla> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bpadmin> to restart the BRSS protocol.

=item 1

B<brsscla> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart the BRSS protocol.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item brsscla can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item No such brss induct.

No BRSS induct with duct name matching I<local_hostname> and I<local_port_nbr>
has been added to the BP database.  Use B<bpadmin> to stop the BRSS
convergence-layer protocol, add the induct, and then restart the BRSS protocol.

=item CLI task is already started for this duct.

Redundant initiation of B<brsscla>.

=item No such brss outduct.

No BRSS outduct with duct name matching I<local_hostname> and I<local_port_nbr>
has been added to the BP database.  Use B<bpadmin> to stop the BRSS
convergence-layer protocol, add the outduct, and then restart the BRSS protocol.

=item Can't get IP address for host

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart BRSS.

=item Can't open TCP socket

Operating system error -- unable to open TCP socket for accepting connections.
Check errtext, correct problem, and restart BRSS.

=item Can't initialize socket (note: must be root for port 80)

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart BRSS.

=item brsscla can't create sender thread

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart BRSS.

=item brsscla can't create access thread

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart BRSS.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-bugs@korgano.eecs.ohiou.edu>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bprc(5), brsccla(1)
