=head1 NAME

cgrfetch - Visualize CGR simulations

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cgrfetch> I<destination-node> [I<time-offset>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<cgrfetch> uses CGR to simulate sending a bundle from the local node to
I<destination-node> at a relative I<time-offset>. It traces the execution of
CGR to generate graphs of the routes that were considered and the routes that
were ultimately chosen to forward along. No bundle is sent during the
simulation.

The generated graphs are represented in Graphviz format and written to the file
I<routes.gv> in the working directory. A visualization can be generated from
this file using the dot(1) utility from the Graphviz project (see B<EXAMPLES>.)
dot(1) can generate pdf, png, and jpeg files, among others.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item destination-node

The final destination to route to. To be useful, it should be a node that exists
in the contact plan.

=item time-offset

A positive or negative number of seconds to add to the current time (when the
command is run.) The default is 0. This time is then passed to CGR as the
requested bundle dispatch time.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item cgrfetch 8

Simulate CGR with destination node 8 and dispatch time equal to the current time.

=item cgrfetch 8 60

Do the same with a dispatch time 60 seconds in the future.

=item dot -Tpdf:cairo:cairo -o routes.pdf routes.gv

Generate a pdf I<routes.pdf> from the route graphs.

=back

=head1 KNOWN LIMITATIONS

=over 4

=item - Multiple routes with the same initial hop node are not handled correctly

=item - The simulation bundle always has a payload length of zero

=item - Routes ignored when selecting proximate nodes are displayed the same as routes selected as final candidates

=item - CGR trace text is always shown

=item - The output filename is hardcoded to I<routes.gv>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

dot(1)
