=head1 NAME

dgrcla - DGR-based BP convergence layer adapter (input and output) task

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dgrcla> I<local_hostname>[:I<local_port_nbr>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<dgrcla> is a background "daemon" task that spawns two threads, one that
handles DGR convergence layer protocol input and a second that handles
DGR convergence layer protocol output.

The input thread receives DGR messages via a UDP socket bound to
I<local_hostname> and I<local_port_nbr>, extracts bundles from those
messages, and passes them to the bundle protocol agent on the local ION node.
(I<local_port_nbr> defaults to 1113 if not specified.)

The output thread extracts bundles from the queues of bundles ready for
transmission via DGR to remote bundle protocol agents, encapsulates them
in DGR messages, and sends those messages to the appropriate remote UDP
sockets as indicated by the host names and UDP port numbers (destination
induct names) associated with the bundles by the routing daemons that
enqueued them.

Note that B<dgrcla> is a "promiscuous" convergence layer daemon, able to
transmit bundles to any DGR destination induct.  Its duct name is the
name of the corresponding induct, rather than the induct name of any
single DGR destination induct to which it might be dedicated, so scheme
configuration directives that cite this outduct must provide destination
induct IDs.  For the DGR convergence-layer protocol, destination induct
IDs are identical to induct names, i.e., they are of the form
I<local_hostname>[:I<local_port_nbr>].

B<dgrcla> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's' (START)
command that starts operation of the Bundle Protocol, and it is terminated by
B<bpadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.  B<dgrcla> can also be
spawned and terminated in response to START and STOP commands that pertain
specifically to the DGR convergence layer protocol.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item 0

B<dgrcla> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bpadmin> to restart B<dgrcla>.

=item 1

B<dgrcla> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart B<dgrcla>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item dgrcla can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item No such dgr induct.

No DGR induct with duct name matching I<local_hostname> and I<local_port_nbr>
has been added to the BP database.  Use B<bpadmin> to stop the DGR
convergence-layer protocol, add the induct, and then restart the DGR protocol.

=item CLI task is already started for this engine.

Redundant initiation of B<dgrcla>.

=item No such dgr induct.

No DGR outduct with duct name matching I<local_hostname> and I<local_port_nbr>
has been added to the BP database.  Use B<bpadmin> to stop the DGR
convergence-layer protocol, add the outduct, and then restart the DGR protocol.

=item Can't get IP address for host

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart DGR.

=item dgrcla can't open DGR service access point.

DGR system error.  Check prior messages in B<ion.log> log file, correct
problem, and then stop and restart the DGR protocol.

=item dgrcla can't create sender thread

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart DGR.

=item dgrcla can't create receiver thread

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart DGR.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-bugs@korgano.eecs.ohiou.edu>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), bprc(5)
