=head1 NAME

acsrc - Aggregate Custody Signal management commands file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Aggregate Custody Signal management commands are passed to B<acsadmin> either
in a file of text lines or interactively at B<acsadmin>'s command prompt (:).
Commands are interpreted line-by line, with exactly one command per line.  The
formats and effects of the Aggregate Custody Signal management commands are
described below.

=head1 GENERAL COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<?>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<h> command.

=item B<#>

Comment line.  Lines beginning with B<#> are not interpreted.

=item B<e> { 1 | 0 }

Echo control.  Setting echo to 1 causes all output printed by acsadmin to be
logged as well as sent to stdout.  Setting echo to 0 disables this behavior.

=item B<v> 

Version number.  Prints out the version of ION currently installed.  HINT:
combine with B<e 1> command to log the version number at startup.

=item B<1> <logLevel> [<heapWords>]

The B<initialize> command.  Until this command is executed, Aggregate Custody
Signals are not in operation on the local ION node and most I<acsadmin>
commands will fail.

The I<logLevel> argument specifies at which log level the ACS appending and
transmitting implementation should record its activity to the ION log file.
This argument is the bitwise "OR" of the following log levels:

=over 4

=item 0x01  ERROR

Errors in ACS programming are logged.

=item 0x02  WARN

Warnings like "out of memory" that don't cause ACS to fail but may change
behavior are logged.

=item 0x04  INFO

Informative information like "this custody signal is a duplicate" is logged.

=item 0x08  DEBUG

Verbose information like the state of the pending ACS tree is logged.

=back

The optional I<heapWords> argument informs ACS to allocate that many heap words
in its own DRAM SDR for constructing pending ACS.  If not supplied, the 
default value 10000 is used.  Once all ACS SDR is allocated,
any incoming custodial bundles that would trigger an ACS will trigger a normal,
non-aggregate custody signal instead, until ACS SDR is freed.  If your node
intermittently emits non-aggregate custody signals when it should emit ACS,
you should increase I<heapWords>.

Since ACS uses SDR only for emitting Aggregate Custody Signals, ION can still
receive ACS even if this command is not executed, or all ACS SDR memory is
allocated.

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<?> command.

=item B<s> <minimumCustodyId>

This command sets the minimum custody ID that the local bundle agent may use
in custody transfer enhancement blocks that it emits.  These custody IDs must
be unique in the network (for the lifetime of the bundles to which they
refer).

The I<minimumCustodyId> provided is stored in SDR, and incremented every time a
new custody ID is required.  So, this command should be used only when the
local bundle agent has discarded its SDR and restarted.

=back

=head1 CUSTODIAN COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a> I<custodianEid> I<acsSize> [I<acsDelay>]

The B<add custodian> command.  This command provides information about the ACS
characteristics of a remote custodian.  I<custodianEid> is the custodian EID for
which this command is providing information.  I<acsSize> is the preferred size
of ACS bundles sent to I<custodianEid>; ACS bundles this implementation sends
to I<custodianEid> will aggregate until ACS are at most I<acsSize> bytes (if
I<acsSize> is smaller than 19 bytes, some ACS containing only one signal will
exceed I<acsSize> and be sent anyways; setting I<acsSize> to 0 causes
"aggregates" of only 1 signal to be sent).

I<acsDelay>
is the maximum amount of time to delay an ACS destined for this custodian
before sending it, in seconds; if not specified, the default value 15 will be
used.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item a ipn:15.0 100 27

Informs ACS on the local node that the local node should send ACS bundles
destined for the custodian ipn:15.0 whenever they are 100 bytes in size or have
been delayed for 27 seconds, whichever comes first.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

acsadmin(1)
