=head1 NAME

ipnrc - IPN scheme configuration commands file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

IPN scheme configuration commands are passed to B<ipnadmin> either in a file of
text lines or interactively at B<ipnadmin>'s command prompt (:).  Commands
are interpreted line-by line, with exactly one command per line.

IPN scheme configuration commands (a) establish egress plans for direct
transmission to neighboring nodes that are members of endpoints identified
in the "ipn" URI scheme and (b) establish static default routing rules
for forwarding bundles to specified destination nodes.

The egress B<plan> established for a given node associates a B<duct expression>
with that node.  Each duct expression is a string of the form
"I<protocol_name>/I<outduct_name>" signifying that the bundle is to be
queued for transmission via the indicated convergence layer protocol outduct.

Note that egress plans B<must> be established for all neighboring nodes,
regardless of whether or not contact graph routing is used for computing
dynamic routes to distant nodes.  This is by definition: if there isn't
an egress plan to a node, it can't be considered a neighbor.

Static default routes are declared as B<exits> in the ipn-scheme routing
database.  An exit is a range of node numbers identifying a set of nodes
for which defined default routing behavior is established.  Whenever a
bundle is to be forwarded to a node whose number is in the exit's node
number range B<and> it has not been possible to compute a dynamic route
to that node from the contact schedules that have been provided to the
local node B<and> that node is not a neighbor to which the bundle can
be directly transmitted, BP will forward the bundle to the B<gateway> node
associated with this exit.  The gateway node for any exit is identified
by an endpoint ID, which might or might not be an ipn-scheme EID; regardless,
directing a bundle to the gateway for an exit causes the bundle to be
re-forwarded to that intermediate destination endpoint.  Multiple exits
may encompass the same node number, in which case the gateway associated
with the most restrictive exit (the one with the smallest range) is
always selected.

B<Note> that "exits" were termed "groups" in earlier versions of ION.  The
term "exit" has been adopted instead, to minimize any possible confusion
with multicast groups.  To protect backward compatibility, the keyword
"group" continues to be accepted by ipnadmin as an alias for the new keyword
"exit", but the older terminology is deprecated.

The formats and effects of the IPN scheme configuration commands are
described below.

=head1 GENERAL COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<?>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<h> command.

=item B<#>

Comment line.  Lines beginning with B<#> are not interpreted.

=item B<e> { 1 | 0 }

Echo control.  Setting echo to 1 causes all output printed by ipnadmin to be
logged as well as sent to stdout.  Setting echo to 0 disables this behavior.

=item B<v> 

Version number.  Prints out the version of ION currently installed.  HINT:
combine with B<e 1> command to log the version number at startup.

=item B<h>

The B<help> command.  This will display a listing of the commands and their
formats.  It is the same as the B<?> command.

=back

=head1 PLAN COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a plan> I<node_nbr> I<duct_expression> [I<nominal_data_rate>]

The B<add plan> command.  This command establishes an egress plan for
the bundles that must be transmitted to the neighboring node identified
by I<node_nbr>.  The I<nominal_data_rate> is the assumed rate of
transmission to this node in the absence of contact plan information.
A I<nominal_data_rate> of zero (the default) in the absence of contact
plan information completely disables rate control.

B<Note that the plan commands consumed by ipnadmin are a simplified
shortcut for submitting plan commands as consumed by bpadmin (see bprc(5)).
The syntax of these commands is DIFFERENT from that of the more general
and more powerful bpadmin commands.>

=item B<c plan> I<node_nbr> I<nominal_data_rate>

The B<change plan> command.  This command changes the nominal data rate
for the indicated plan.

=item B<d plan> I<node_nbr>

The B<delete plan> command.  This command deletes the egress plan
for the node identified by I<node_nbr>.

=item B<i plan> I<node_nbr>

This command will print information about the egress plan for the node
identified by I<node_nbr>.

=item B<l plan>

This command lists all egress plans established in the IPN database for the
local node.

=back

=head1 EXIT COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a exit> I<first_node_nbr> I<last_node_nbr> I<gateway_endpoint_ID>

The B<add exit> command.  This command establishes an "exit" for static 
default routing as described above.

=item B<c exit> I<first_node_nbr> I<last_node_nbr> I<gateway_endpoint_ID>

The B<change exit> command.  This command changes the gateway node
number for the exit identified by I<first_node_nbr> and I<last_node_nbr> .

=item B<d exit> I<first_node_nbr> I<last_node_nbr>

The B<delete exit> command.  This command deletes the exit identified
by I<first_node_nbr> and I<last_node_nbr>.

=item B<i exit> I<first_node_nbr> I<last_node_nbr>

This command will print information (the gateway endpoint ID) about the
exit identified by I<first_node_nbr> and I<last_node_nbr>.

=item B<l exit>

This command lists all exits defined in the IPN database for the local node.

=back

=head1 OVERRIDE COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<a rtovrd> I<data_label> I<dest_node_nbr> I<source_node_nbr> I<neighbor>

The B<add rtovrd> command.  This command cause bundles characterized by
I<data_label>, I<dest_node_nbr> ("all other destinations" if this node
number is zero) and I<source_node_nbr> ("all other sources" if this node
number is zero) to be forwarded to I<neighbor>.  If I<neighbor> is zero,
the override will be "learned" by ION: the neighbor selected for this
bundle, by whatever means, becomes the override for all subsequent matching
bundles.

=item B<c rtovrd> I<data_label> I<dest_node_nbr> I<source_node_nbr> I<neighbor>

The B<change rtovrd> command.  This command changes the override neighbor
for the override identified by I<data_label>, I<dest_node_nbr>, and
I<source_node_nbr>.  To cause ION to forget the override, use -1 as
I<neighbor>.

=item B<a cosovrd> I<data_label> I<dest_node_nbr> I<source_node_nbr> I<priority> I<ordinal>

The B<add cosovrd> command.  This command cause bundles characterized by
I<data_label>, I<dest_node_nbr> ("all other destinations" if this node
number is zero) and I<source_node_nbr> ("all other sources" if this node
number is zero) to have their effective class of service (priority and
ordinal) changed as noted.

=item B<c cosovrd> I<data_label> I<dest_node_nbr> I<source_node_nbr> I<priority> I<ordinal>

The B<change cosovrd> command.  This command changes the override priority
and ordinal for the override identified by I<data_label>, I<dest_node_nbr>,
and I<source_node_nbr>.  To cause ION to forget the override, use -1 as
I<priority>.

=item B<d ovrd> I<data_label> I<dest_node_nbr> I<source_node_nbr>

The B<delete override> command.  This command deletes all overrides identified
by I<data_label>, I<dest_node_nbr>, and I<source_node_nbr>.

=item B<i ovrd> I<data_label> I<dest_node_nbr> I<source_node_nbr>

This command will print information for all overrides identified
by I<data_label>, I<dest_node_nbr>, and I<source_node_nbr>.

=item B<l ovrd>

This command lists all overrides defined in the IPN database for the local node.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item a plan 18 ltp/18

Declares the egress plan to use for transmission from the local node to
neighboring node 18.  By default, any bundle for which the computed "next
hop" node is node 18 will be queued for transmission on LTP outduct 18.

=item a exit 1 999 dtn://stargate

Declares a default route for bundles destined for all nodes whose numbers
are in the range 1 through 999 inclusive: absent any other routing decision,
such bundles are to be forwarded to "dtn://stargate".

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

ipnadmin(1)
