=head1 NAME

ion - Interplanetary Overlay Network common definitions and functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    #include "ion.h"

    [see description for available functions]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Interplanetary Overlay Network (ION) software distribution is an
implementation of Delay-Tolerant Networking (DTN) architecture as described
in Internet RFC 4838.  It is designed to enable inexpensive insertion of
DTN functionality into embedded systems such as robotic spacecraft.  The
intent of ION deployment in space flight mission systems is to reduce
cost and risk in mission communications by simplifying the construction
and operation of automated digital data communication networks spanning
space links, planetary surface links, and terrestrial links.

The ION distribution comprises the following software packages:

=over 4

I<ici> (Interplanetary Communication Infrastructure), a set of general-purpose
libraries providing common functionality to the other packages.

I<ltp> (Licklider Transmission Protocol), a core DTN protocol that provides
transmission reliability based on delay-tolerant acknowledgments, timeouts,
and retransmissions.

I<dgr> (Datagram Retransmission), a library that enables data to be
transmitted via UDP with reliability comparable to that provided by TCP.  DGR
is an alternative implementation of LTP, designed for use within an internet.

I<bssp> (Bundle Streaming Service Protocol), a protocol that supports
delay-tolerant data streaming.  BSSP delivers data in transmission order
with minimum latency but possibly with omissions, for immediate display,
and at the same time it delivers the same data reliably in background so
that the streamed data can be "rewound" for possibly improved presentation.

I<bp> (Bundle Protocol), a core DTN protocol that provides delay-tolerant
forwarding of data through a network in which continuous end-to-end
connectivity is never assured, including support for delay-tolerant
dynamic routing.  The Bundle Protocol (BP) specification is defined
in Internet RFC 5050.

I<ams> (Asynchronous Message Service), I<cfdp> (CCSDS File Delivery
Protocol), I<dtpc> (Delay-Tolerant Payload Conditioning), and I<bss>
(Bundle Streaming Service), application-layer services that are not part
of the DTN architecture but utilize underlying DTN protocols.

=back

Taken together, the packages included in the ION software distribution
constitute a communication capability characterized by the following
operational features:

=over 4

Reliable conveyance of data over a DTN, i.e., a network in which it might
never be possible for any node to have reliable information about the
detailed current state of any other node.

Built on this capability, reliable distribution of short messages to multiple
recipients (subscribers) residing in such a network.

Management of traffic through such a network.

Facilities for monitoring the performance of the network.

Robustness against node failure.

Portability across heterogeneous computing platforms.

High speed with low overhead.

Easy integration with heterogeneous underlying communication infrastructure,
ranging from Internet to dedicated spacecraft communication links.

=back

While most of the ici package consists of libraries providing functionality
that may be of general utility in any complex embedded software system,
the functions and macros described below are specifically designed to support
operations of ION's delay-tolerant networking protocol stack.

=over 4

=item TIMESTAMPBUFSZ

This macro returns the recommended size of a buffer that is intended to
contain a timestamp in ION-standard format:

=over 4

yyyy/mm/dd-hh:mm:ss

=back

=item int ionAttach()

Attaches the invoking task to ION infrastructure as previously established
by running the I<ionadmin> utility program.  Returns zero on success, -1 on
any error.

=item void ionDetach()

Detaches the invoking task from ION infrastructure.  In particular, releases
handle allocated for access to ION's non-volatile database.  B<NOTE>, though,
that ionDetach() has no effect when the invoking task is running in a
non-memory-protected environment, such as VxWorks, where all ION resource
access variables are shared by all tasks: no single task could detach
without crashing all other ION tasks.

=item void ionProd(uvast fromNode, uvast toNode, unsigned int xmitRate, unsigned int owlt)

This function is designed to be called from an operating environment command
or a fault protection routine, to enable operation of a node to resume when
all of its scheduled contacts are in the past (making it impossible to use
a DTN communication contact to assert additional future communication
contacts).  The function asserts a single new unidirectional contact
conforming to the arguments provided, including the applicable one-way light
time, with start time equal to the current time (at the moment of execution
of the function) and end time equal to the start time plus 2 hours.  The
result of executing the function is written to the ION log using standard
ION status message logging functions.

B<NOTE> that the ionProd() function must be invoked twice in order
to establish bidirectional communication.

=item void ionTerminate()

Shuts down the entire ION node, terminating all daemons.  The state of 
the node is retained in the node's SDR heap.

=item int ionStartAttendant(ReqAttendant *attendant)

Initializes the semaphore in I<attendant> so that it can be used for blocking
ZCO space requisitions by ionRequestZcoSpace().  Returns 0 on success,
-1 on any error.

=item void ionPauseAttendant(ReqAttendant *attendant)

"Ends" the semaphore in I<attendant> so that the task that is blocked on
taking it is interrupted and may respond to an error or shutdown condition.

=item void ionResumeAttendant(ReqAttendant *attendant)

Reinitializes the semaphore in I<attendant> so that it can again be used
for blocking ZCO space requisitions.

=item void ionStopAttendant(ReqAttendant *attendant)

Destroys the semaphore in I<attendant>, preventing a potential resource leak.

=item int ionRequestZcoSpace(ZcoAcct acct, vast fileSpaceNeeded, vast bulkSpaceNeeded, vast heapSpaceNeeded, unsigned char coarsePriority, unsigned char finePriority, ReqAttendant *attendant, ReqTicket *ticket)

Lodges a request for ZCO space in the pool identified by I<acct>.  If the
requested space can be provided immediately, it is reserved for use by the
calling task.  Otherwise, if I<attendant> is non-NULL then the request is
queued for service when space becomes available.  In any case, I<*ticket>
is set to the address of a "ticket" referencing this request.  The status
of the request can be interrogated by calling ionSpaceAwarded().  If this
function returns 1 (True) then ZCO space may be consumed immediately and
the ticket must then be destroyed by a call to ionShred().  Otherwise, if
an attendant was provided, then the calling task should pend on the semaphore
in I<attendant> and upon successfully taking the semaphore it must
consume the requested ZCO space and then ionShred() the ticket.  Otherwise
the request for ZCO space has been definitively denied and, as always, the
ticket must by destroyed by an invocation of ionShred().  Returns 0 on success,
-1 on any failure.

=item int ionSpaceAwarded(ReqTicket *ticket)

Returns 1 if I<ticket> is for a ZCO space request that has been serviced
(ZCO space has been reserved per this request), 0 otherwise.

=item void ionShred(ReqTicket *ticket)

Dismisses the reservation of ZCO space (if any) requested by the call to
ionRequestZcoSpace() that returned I<ticket>.  Calling ionShred() indicates
either that the requested space was reserved (i.e., the request was "serviced")
and has been claimed (consumed by the appending of a ZCO extent) or that the
request has been canceled.  Note that failure to promptly (within 3 seconds of
reception) ionShred() the ticket for a service request will be interpreted as
refusal of the reserved ZCO space, resulting in that space being made
available for use by other tasks.

=item Object ionCreateZco(ZcoMedium source, Object location, vast offset, vast length, unsigned char coarsePriority, unsigned char finePriority, ZcoAcct acct, ReqAttendant *attendant)

This function provides a "blocking" implementation of admission control in
ION.  Like zco_create(), it constructs a zero-copy object (see zco(3)) that
contains a single extent of source data residing at I<location> in I<source>,
of which the first I<offset> bytes are omitted and the next I<length> bytes
are included.  But unlike zco_create(), ionCreateZco() can be configured to
block (rather than return an immediate error indication) so long as the total
amount of space in I<source> that is available for new ZCO formation is less
than I<length>.  ionCreateZco() operates by calling ionRequestZcoSpace(),
then pending on the semaphore in I<attendant> as necessary before creating
the ZCO.  ionCreateZco() returns when either (a) space has become
available and the ZCO has been created, in which case the location of
the ZCO is returned, or (b) the function has failed (in which case
((Object) -1) is returned), or (c) either I<attendant> was null and sufficient
space for the first extent of the ZCO was not immediately available or else
the function was interrupted by ionPauseAttendant() before space for the
ZCO became available (in which case 0 is returned).

=item vast ionAppendZcoExtent(Object zco, ZcoMedium source, Object location, vast offset, vast length, unsigned char coarsePriority, unsigned char finePriority, ReqAttendant *attendant)

Similar to ionCreateZco() except that instead of creating a new ZCO it appends
an additional extent to an existing ZCO.  Returns -1 on failure, 0 on
interruption by ionPauseAttendant() or if I<attendant> was NULL and sufficient
space for the extent was not immediately available, I<length> on success.

=item Sdr getIonsdr()

Returns a pointer to the SDR management object, previously acquired by calling
ionAttach(), or zero on any error.

=item PsmPartition getIonwm()

Returns a pointer to the ION working memory partition, previously acquired
by calling ionAttach(), or zero on any error.

=item int getIonMemoryMgr()

Returns the memory manager ID for operations on ION's working memory partition,
previously acquired by calling ionAttach(), or -1 on any error.

=item int ionLocked();

Returns 1 if the calling task is the owner of the current SDR transaction.
Assuring that ION is locked while related critical operations are performed
is essential to the avoidance of race conditions.

=item uvast getOwnNodeNbr()

Returns the Bundle Protocol node number identifying this node, as
declared when ION was initialized by I<ionadmin>.

=item time_t getCtime()

Returns the current calendar (i.e., Unix epoch) time, as computed from local
clock time and the computer's current offset from UTC (due to clock drift,
B<not> due to time zone difference; the B<utcdelta>) as managed from
I<ionadmin>.

=item int ionClockIsSynchronized()

Returns 1 if the computer on which the local ION node is running has a
synchronized clock , i.e., a clock that reports the current calendar (i.e.,
Unix epoch) time as a value that differs from the correct calendar time by
an interval approximately equal to the currently asserted offset from UTC
due to clock drift; returns zero otherwise.

If the machine's clock is synchronized then its reported values (as returned
by getCtime()) can safely be used as the creation times of new bundles and
the expiration time of such a bundle can accurately be computed as the sum
of the bundle's creation time and time to live.  If not, then the creation
timestamp time of new bundles sourced at the local ION node must be zero
and the creation timestamp sequence numbers must increase monotonically
forever, never rolling over to zero.

=item void writeTimestampLocal(time_t timestamp, char *timestampBuffer)

Expresses the time value in I<timestamp> as a local timestamp string in
ION-standard format, as noted above, in I<timestampBuffer>.

=item void writeTimestampUTC(time_t timestamp, char *timestampBuffer)

Expresses the time value in I<timestamp> as a UTC timestamp string in
ION-standard format, as noted above, in I<timestampBuffer>.

=item time_t readTimestampLocal(char *timestampBuffer, time_t referenceTime)

Parses the local timestamp string in I<timestampBuffer> and returns the
corresponding calendar (i.e., Unix epoch) time value (as would be returned by
time(2)), or zero if the timestamp string cannot be parsed successfully.  The
timestamp string is normally expected to be an absolute expression of local
time in ION-standard format as noted above.  However, a relative time
expression variant is also supported: if the first character of
I<timestampBuffer> is '+' then the remainder of the string is interpreted
as a count of seconds; the sum of this value and the time value in
I<referenceTime> is returned.

=item time_t readTimestampUTC(char *timestampBuffer, time_t referenceTime)

Same as readTimestampLocal() except that if I<timestampBuffer> is not a
relative time expression then it is interpreted as an absolute expression
of UTC time in ION-standard format as noted above.

=back

=head1 STATUS MESSAGES

ION uses writeMemo(), putErrmsg(), and putSysErrmsg() to log several different
types of standardized status messages.

=over 4

=item Informational messages

These messages are generated to inform the user of the occurrence of events
that are nominal but significant, such as the controlled termination of a
daemon or the production of a congestion forecast.  Each informational
message has the following format:

=over 4

{I<yyyy/mm/dd hh:mm:ss>} [i] I<text>

=back

=item Warning messages

These messages are generated to inform the user of the occurrence of events
that are off-nominal but are likely caused by configuration or operational
errors rather than software failure.  Each warning message has the following
format:

=over 4

{I<yyyy/mm/dd hh:mm:ss>} [?] I<text>

=back

=item Diagnostic messages

These messages are produced by calling putErrmsg() or putSysErrmsg().  They
are generated to inform the user of the occurrence of events that are
off-nominal and might be due to errors in software.  The location within
the ION software at which the off-nominal condition was detected is
indicated in the message:

=over 4

{I<yyyy/mm/dd hh:mm:ss>} at line I<nnn> of I<sourcefilename>, I<text> (I<argument>)

=back

Note that the I<argument> portion of the message (including its enclosing
parentheses) will be provided only when an argument value seems potentially
helpful in fault analysis.

=item Bundle Status Report (BSR) messages

A BSR message informs the user of the arrival of a BSR, a Bundle Protocol
report on the status of some bundle.  BSRs are issued in the course of
processing bundles for which one or more status report request flags are set,
and they are also issued when bundles for which custody transfer is requested
are destroyed prior to delivery to their destination endpoints.  A BSR message
is generated by B<ipnadminep> upon reception of a BSR.  The time and place
(node) at which the BSR was issued are indicated in the message:

=over 4

{I<yyyy/mm/dd hh:mm:ss>} [s] (I<sourceEID>)/I<creationTimeSeconds>:I<counter>/I<fragmentOffset> status I<flagsByte> at I<time> on I<endpointID>, 'I<reasonString>'.

=back

=item Communication statistics messages

A network performance report is a set of eight communication statistics
messages, one for each of eight different types of network activity.  A report
is issued every time contact transmission or reception starts or stops,
except when there is no activity of any kind on the local node since the prior
report.  When a report is issued, statistic messages are generated to summarize
all network activity detected since the prior report, after which all network
activity counters and accumulators are reset to zero.

B<NOTE> also that the B<bpstats> utility program can be invoked to issue an
interim network performance report at any time.  Issuance of interim status
reports does B<not> cause network activity counters and accumulators to be
reset to zero.

Statistics messages have the following format:

=over 4

{I<yyyy/mm/dd hh:mm:ss>} [x] I<xxx> from I<tttttttt> to I<TTTTTTTT>: (0) I<aaaa> I<bbbbbbbbbb> (1) I<cccc> I<dddddddddd> (2) I<eeee> I<ffffffffff> (+) I<gggg> I<hhhhhhhhhh>

=back

I<xxx> indicates the type of network activity that the message is reporting
on.  Statistics for eight different types of network activity are reported:

=over 4

=item B<src>

This message reports on the bundles sourced at the local node during the
indicated interval.

=item B<fwd>

This message is about routing; it reports on the number of bundles queued
for forwarding to neighboring nodes as selected by the routing procedure.
When a bundle must be re-forwarded due to convergence-layer transmission
failure it is counted a second time here.

=item B<xmt>

This message reports on the bundles passed to the convergence layer protocol(s)
for transmission from this node.  Again, a re-forwarded bundle that is then
re-transmitted at the convergence layer is counted a second time here.

=item B<rcv>

This message reports on the bundles from other nodes that were received at
the local node.

=item B<dlv>

This message reports on the bundles delivered to applications via endpoints
on the local node.

=item B<ctr>

This message reports on the custody refusal signals received at the local node.

=item B<rfw>

This message reports on bundles for which convergence-layer transmission
failed at this node, causing the bundles to be re-forwarded.

=item B<exp>

This message reports on the bundles destroyed at this node due to TTL
expiration.

=back

I<tttttttt> and I<TTTTTTTT> indicate the start and end times of the interval
for which statistics are being reported, expressed in I<yyyy/mm/dd-hh:mm:ss>
format.  I<TTTTTTTT> is the current time and I<tttttttt> is the time of the
prior report.

Each of the four value pairs following the colon (:) reports on the number
of bundles counted for the indicated type of network activity, for the
indicated traffic flow, followed by the sum of the sizes of the payloads
of all those bundles.  The four traffic flows for which statistics are
reported are "(0)" the priority-0 or "bulk" traffic, "(1)" the priority-1
"standard" traffic, "(2)" the priority-2 "expedited" traffic, and "(+)"
the total for all classes of service.

=item Free-form messages

Other status messages are free-form, except that date and time are always noted
just as for the documented status message types.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

ionadmin(1), rfxclock(1), bpstats(1), llcv(3), lyst(3), memmgr(3), platform(3), psm(3), sdr(3), zco(3), ltp(3), bp(3), cfdp(3), ams(3), bss(3)
