=head1 NAME

sdr - Simple Data Recorder library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    #include "sdr.h"

    [see below for available functions]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SDR is a library of functions that support the use of an abstract
data recording device called an "SDR" ("simple data recorder") for
persistent storage of data.  The SDR abstraction insulates
software not only from the specific characteristics of any single
data storage device but also from some kinds of persistent 
data storage and retrieval chores.  The underlying
principle is that an SDR provides standardized support for user
data organization at object granularity, with direct access to persistent 
user data objects, rather than supporting user data organization 
only at "file" granularity and requiring the user to
implement access to the data objects accreted within those files.

The SDR library is designed to provide some of the same kinds of
directory services as a file system together with support for
complex data structures that provide more operational flexibility
than files.  (As an example of this flexibility, consider how
much easier and faster it is to delete a given element from the middle 
of a linked list than it is to delete a range of bytes from
the middle of a text file.)  The intent is to enable the software
developer to take maximum advantage of the high speed and direct
byte addressability of a non-volatile flat address space
in the management of persistent data.  The SDR equivalent of a "record"
of data is simply a block of nominally persistent memory allocated from
this address space.  The SDR equivalent of a "file" is a I<collection>
object.  Like files, collections can have names, can be located 
by name within persistent storage, and can impose structure
on the data items they encompass.  But, as discussed later, SDR
collection objects can impose structures other than the strict
FIFO accretion of records or bytes that characterizes a file.

The notional data recorder managed by the SDR library takes the
form of a single array of randomly accessible, contiguous,
nominally persistent memory locations called a I<heap>.  Physically, the heap
may be implemented as a region of shared memory, as a single file of
predefined size, or both -- that is, the heap may be a region of shared
memory that is automatically mirrored in a file.

SDR services that manage SDR data are provided in several
layers, each of which relies on the services implemented at lower levels:

=over 4

At the highest level, a cataloguing service enables retrieval 
of persistent objects by name.

Services that manage three types of persistent data collections are 
provided for use both by applications and by the cataloguing service:  
linked lists, self-delimiting tables (which function as arrays that
remember their own dimensions), and self-delimiting strings (short
character arrays that remember their lengths, for speedier retrieval).

Basic SDR heap space management services, analogous to malloc() and free(),
enable the creation and destruction of objects of arbitrary type.

Farther down the service stack are memcpy-like low-level 
functions for reading from and writing to the heap.

Protection of SDR data integrity across a series of reads and writes is 
provided by a I<transaction> mechanism.

=back

SDR persistent data are referenced in application code by Object
values and Address values, both of which are simply displacements
(offsets) within SDR address space.  The difference between the
two is that an Object is always the address of a block of heap
space returned by some call to sdr_malloc(), while an Address can
refer to any byte in the address space.  That is, an Address is
the SDR functional equivalent of a C pointer in DRAM, and some
Addresses point to Objects.

Before using SDR services, the services must be loaded to the
target machine and initialized by invoking the sdr_initialize()
function and the management profiles of one or more SDR's must be
loaded by invoking the sdr_load_profile() function.  These steps
are normally performed only once, at application load time.

An application gains access to an SDR by passing the name of the
SDR to the sdr_start_using() function, which returns an Sdr
pointer.  Most other SDR library functions take an Sdr pointer
as first argument.

All writing to an SDR heap must occur during a I<transaction> that
was initiated by the task issuing the write.  Transactions are
single-threaded; if task B wants to start
a transaction while a transaction begun by task A is still in progress,
it must wait until A's transaction is either ended or cancelled.  A
transaction is begun by calling sdr_begin_xn().  The current transaction
is normally ended by calling the sdr_end_xn() function, which returns an error
return code value in the event that any serious SDR-related processing error
was encountered in the course of the transaction.  Transactions may safely
be nested, provided that every level of transaction activity that is begun
is properly ended.

The current transaction may instead be cancelled by calling sdr_cancel_xn(),
which is normally used to indicate that some sort of serious SDR-related
processing error has been encountered.  Canceling a transaction reverses
all SDR update activity performed up to that point within the scope of the
transaction -- and, if the canceled transaction is an inner, nested
transaction, all SDR update activity performed within the scope of every
outer transaction encompassing that transaction I<and> every other transaction
nested within any of those outer transactions -- provided the SDR was
configured for transaction I<reversibility>.  When an SDR is
configured for reversibility, all heap write operations
performed during a transaction are recorded in a log file that is
retained until the end of the transaction.  Each log file entry notes
the location at which the write operation was performed, the length
of data written, and the content of the overwritten heap bytes prior
to the write operation.  Canceling the transaction causes the log entries
to be read and processed in reverse order, restoring all overwritten data.
Ending the transaction, on the other hand, simply causes the log to be
discarded.

If a log file exists at the time that the profile for an SDR is loaded
(typically during application initialization), the transaction that was
being logged is automatically canceled and reversed.  This ensures that,
for example, a power failure that occurs in the middle of a
transaction will never wreck the SDR's data integrity: either all updates
issued during a given transaction are reflected in the current dataspace
content or none are.

As a further measure to protect SDR data integrity, an SDR may
additionally be configured for I<object bounding>.  When an SDR is
configured to be "bounded", every heap write operation is restricted
to the extent of a single object allocated from heap space; that is,
it's impossible to overwrite part of one object by writing beyond
the end of another.  To enable the library to enforce this mechanism,
application code is prohibited from writing anywhere but within the
extent of an object that either (a) was allocated from managed heap
space during the same transaction (directly or indirectly via some
collection management function) or (b) was I<staged> -- identified
as an update target -- during the same transaction (again, either
directly or via some collection management function).

Note that both transaction reversibility and object bounding consume
processing cycles and inhibit performance to some degree.  Determining
the right balance between operational safety and processing speed is
left to the user.

Note also that, since SDR transactions are single-threaded, they can
additionally be used as a general mechanism for simply implementing "critical
sections" in software that is already using SDR for other purposes: the
beginning of a transaction marks the start of code that can't be executed
concurrently by multiple tasks.  To support this use of the SDR transaction
mechanism, the additional transaction termination function sdr_exit_xn() is
provided.  sdr_exit_xn() simply ends a transaction without either signaling
an error or checking for errors.  Like sdr_cancel_xn(), sdr_exit_xn()
has no return value; unlike sdr_cancel_xn(), it assures that ending an
inner, nested transaction does not cause the outer transaction to be
aborted and backed out.  But this capability must be used carefully: the
protection of SDR data integrity requires that transactions which are
ended by sdr_exit_xn() must not encompass any SDR update activity whatsoever.

The heap space management functions of the SDR library are adapted
directly from the Personal Space Management (I<psm>)
function library.  The manual page for psm(3) explains
the algorithms used and the rationale behind them.  The principal
difference between PSM memory management and SDR heap management
is that, for performance reasons, SDR reserves the "small pool" for
its own use only; all user data space is allocated from the "large
pool", via the sdr_malloc() function.

=head2 RETURN VALUES AND ERROR HANDLING

Whenever an SDR function call fails, a diagnostic message explaining
the failure of the function is recorded in the error message pool
managed by the "platform" system (see the discussion
of putErrmsg() in platform(3)).

The failure of any function invoked in the course of an SDR
transaction causes all subsequent SDR activity in that
transaction to fail immediately.  This can streamline SDR application
code somewhat: it may not be necessary to check the return
value of every SDR function call executed during a transaction.
If the sdr_end_xn() call returns zero, all updates performed during
the transaction must have succeeded.

=head1 SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION FUNCTIONS

=over 4

=item int sdr_initialize(int wmSize, char *wmPtr, int wmKey, char *wmName)

Initializes the SDR system.  sdr_initialize() must be
called once every time the computer on which the system
runs is rebooted, before any call to any other SDR library function.

This function attaches to a pool of shared memory, managed by PSM
(see psm(3), that enables SDR library operations.  If the SDR system
is to access a common pool of shared memory with one or more other
systems, the key of that shared memory segment must be provided in
I<wmKey> and the PSM partition name associated with that memory segment
must be provided in I<wmName>; otherwise I<wmKey> must be zero and
I<wmName> must be NULL, causing sdr_initialize() to assign default
values.  If a shared memory segment identified by the effective
value of I<wmKey> already exists, then I<wmSize> may be zero and the value of
I<wmPtr> is ignored.  Otherwise the size of the shared memory pool must
be provided in I<wmSize> and a new shared memory segment is created in
a manner that is dependent on I<wmPtr>: if I<wmPtr> is NULL then I<wmSize>
bytes of shared memory are dynamically acquired, allocated, and assigned
to the newly created shared memory segment; otherwise the memory located
at I<wmPtr> is assumed to have been pre-allocated and is merely assigned
to the newly created shared memory segment.

sdr_initialize() also creates a semaphore to serialize access to the
SDR system's private array of SDR profiles.  

Returns 0 on success, -1 on any failure.

=item void sdr_wm_usage(PsmUsageSummary *summary)

Loads I<summary> with a snapshot of the usage of the SDR system's private
working memory.  To print the snapshot, use psm_report().  (See psm(3).)

=item void sdr_shutdown( )

Ends all access to all SDRs (see sdr_stop_using()), detaches from the
SDR system's working memory (releasing the memory if it was dynamically
allocated by sdr_initialize()), and destroys the SDR system's private
semaphore.  After sdr_shutdown(), sdr_initialize() must be called again
before any call to any other SDR library function.

=back

=head1 DATABASE ADMINISTRATION FUNCTIONS

=over 4

=item int sdr_load_profile(char *name, int configFlags, long heapWords, int heapKey, int logSize, int logKey, char *pathName, char *restartCmd, unsigned int restartLatency)

Loads the profile for an SDR into the system's private list of SDR profiles.
Although SDRs themselves are persistent, SDR profiles are not: in order
for an application to access an SDR, sdr_load_profile() must have been called
to load the profile of the SDR since the last invocation of sdr_initialize(). 

I<name> is the name of the SDR, required for any subsequent sdr_start_using()
call.  

I<configFlags> specifies the configuration of the
SDR, the bitwise "or" of some combination of the following:

=over 4

=item SDR_IN_DRAM

SDR dataspace is implemented as a region of shared memory.

=item SDR_IN_FILE

SDR dataspace is implemented as a file.

=item SDR_REVERSIBLE

SDR transactions are logged and are reversed if canceled.

=item SDR_BOUNDED

Heap updates are not allowed to cross object boundaries.

=back

I<heapWords> specifies the size of the heap in words; word size depends on
machine architecture, i.e., a word is 4 bytes on a 32-bit machine, 8 bytes on
a 64-bit machine.  Note that each SDR prepends to the heap a "map" of
predefined, fixed size.  The total amount of space occupied by an SDR
dataspace in memory and/or in a file is the sum of the size of the map
plus the product of word size and I<heapWords>.

I<heapKey> is ignored if I<configFlags> does not include SDR_IN_DRAM.  It
should normally be SM_NO_KEY, causing the shared memory region for the SDR
dataspace to be allocated dynamically and shared using a dynamically selected
shared memory key.  If specified, I<heapKey> must be a shared memory key
identifying a pre-allocated region of shared memory whose length is equal
to the total SDR dataspace size, shared via the indicated key.

I<logSize> specifies the maximum size of the transaction log (in bytes) if
and only if the log is to be written to memory rather than to a file; otherwise
it must be zero.  I<logKey> is ignored if I<logSize> is zero.  It should
normally be SM_NO_KEY, causing the shared memory region for the transaction
log to be allocated dynamically and shared using a dynamically selected
shared memory key.  If specified, I<logKey> must be a shared memory key
identifying a pre-allocated region of shared memory whose length is equal
to I<logSize>, shared via the indicated key.

I<pathName> is ignored if I<configFlags> includes neither SDR_REVERSIBLE nor
SDR_IN_FILE.  It is the fully qualified name of the directory into which the
SDR's log file and/or dataspace file will be written.  The name of the log
file (if any) will be "<sdrname>.sdrlog".  The name of the dataspace file
(if any) will be "<sdrname>.sdr"; this file will be automatically created
and filled with zeros if it does not exist at the time the SDR's profile
is loaded.

If a cleanup task must be run whenever a transaction is reversed, the command
to execute this task must be provided in I<restartCmd> and the number of
seconds to wait for this task to finish before resuming operations must be
provided in I<restartLatency>.  If I<restartCmd> is NULL or I<restartLatency>
is zero then no cleanup task will be run upon transaction reversal.

Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int sdr_reload_profile(char *name, int configFlags, long heapWords, int heapKey, int logSize, int logKey, char *pathName, char *restartCmd, unsigned int restartLatency)

For use when the state of an SDR is thought to be inconsistent, perhaps
due to crash of a program that had a transaction open.  Unloads the
profile for the SDR, forcing the reversal of any transaction that is
currently in progress when the SDR's profile is re-loaded.  Then
calls sdr_load_profile() to re-load the profile for the SDR.  Same
return values as sdr_load_profile.

=item Sdr sdr_start_using(char *name)

Locates SDR profile by I<name> and returns a handle that can be used
for all functions that operate on that SDR.  On any failure, returns NULL.

=item char *sdr_name(Sdr sdr)

Returns the name of the sdr.

=item long sdr_heap_size(Sdr sdr)

Returns the total size of the SDR heap, in bytes.

=item void sdr_stop_using(Sdr sdr)

Terminates access to the SDR via this handle.  Other users of the SDR are
not affected.  Frees the Sdr object.

=item void sdr_abort(Sdr sdr)

Terminates the task.  In flight configuration, also terminates all use
of the SDR system by all tasks.

=item void sdr_destroy(Sdr sdr)

Ends all access to this SDR, unloads the SDR's profile, and erases the SDR
from memory and file system.

=back

=head1 DATABASE TRANSACTION FUNCTIONS

=over 4

=item int sdr_begin_xn(Sdr sdr)

Initiates a transaction.  Returns 1 on success, 0 on any failure.  Note
that transactions are single-threaded; any task that calls sdr_begin_xn()
is suspended until all previously requested transactions have been ended
or canceled.

=item int sdr_in_xn(Sdr sdr)

Returns 1 if called in the course of a transaction, 0 otherwise.

=item void sdr_exit_xn(Sdr sdr)

Simply abandons the current transaction, ceasing the calling task's lock on
ION.  Must B<not> be used if any dataspace modifications were performed
during the transaction; sdr_end_xn() must be called instead, to commit
those modifications.

=item void sdr_cancel_xn(Sdr sdr)

Cancels the current transaction.  If reversibility is enabled for
the SDR, canceling a transaction reverses all heap modifications
performed during that transaction.

=item int sdr_end_xn(Sdr sdr)

Ends the current transaction.  Returns 0 if the transaction completed
without any error; returns -1 if any operation performed in the course
of the transaction failed, in which case the transaction was automatically
canceled.

=back

=head1 DATABASE I/O FUNCTIONS

=over 4

=item void sdr_read(Sdr sdr, char *into, Address from, int length)

Copies I<length> characters at I<from> (a location in the
indicated SDR) to the memory location given by I<into>.  The data are
copied from the shared memory region in which the SDR resides, if any;
otherwise they are read from the file in which the SDR resides.

=item void sdr_peek(sdr, variable, from)

sdr_peek() is a macro that uses sdr_read() to load I<variable> from
the indicated address in the SDR dataspace; the size of I<variable> is
used as the number of bytes to copy.

=item void sdr_write(Sdr sdr, Address into, char *from, int length)

Copies I<length> characters at I<from> (a location in memory) to the SDR
heap location given by I<into>.  Can only be performed during a transaction, 
and if the SDR is configured for object bounding then heap
locations I<into> through (I<into> + (I<length> - 1)) must be within
the extent of some object that was either allocated or staged within the
same transaction.  The data are copied both to the shared memory region
in which the SDR resides, if any, and also to the file in which the SDR
resides, if any.

=item void sdr_poke(sdr, into, variable)

sdr_poke() is a macro that uses sdr_write() to store I<variable> at
the indicated address in the SDR dataspace; the size of I<variable> is
used as the number of bytes to copy.

=item char *sdr_pointer(Sdr sdr, Address address)

Returns a pointer to the indicated location in the heap - a "heap pointer" - or
NULL if the indicated address is invalid.  NOTE that this
function I<cannot be used> if the SDR does not reside in a shared memory region.

Providing an alternative to using sdr_read() to retrieve objects
into local memory, sdr_pointer() can help make SDR-based
applications run very quickly, but it must be used WITH GREAT
CAUTION!  Never use a direct pointer into the heap when not
within a transaction, because you will have no assurance at
any time that the object pointed to by that pointer has not changed
(or is even still there).  And NEVER de-reference a heap 
pointer in order to write directly into the heap: this makes
transaction reversal impossible.  Whenever writing to the SDR, always use
sdr_write().

=item Address sdr_address(Sdr sdr, char *pointer)

Returns the address within the SDR heap of the indicated location,
which must be (or be derived from) a heap pointer as returned
by sdr_pointer().  Returns zero if the indicated location is not
greater than the start of the heap mirror.  NOTE that this
function I<cannot be used> if the SDR does not reside in a shared memory region.

=item void sdr_get(sdr, variable, heap_pointer)

sdr_get() is a macro that uses sdr_read() to load I<variable> from
the SDR address given by I<heap_pointer>; I<heap_pointer> must be (or
be derived from) a heap pointer as returned by sdr_pointer().  The size
of I<variable> is used as the number of bytes to copy.

=item void sdr_set(sdr, heap_pointer, variable)

sdr_set() is a macro that uses sdr_write() to store I<variable> at
the SDR address given by I<heap_pointer>; I<heap_pointer> must be (or
be derived from) a heap pointer as returned by sdr_pointer().  The size
of I<variable> is used as the number of bytes to copy.

=back

=head1 HEAP SPACE MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS

=over 4

=item Object sdr_malloc(Sdr sdr, unsigned long size)

Allocates a block of space from the of the indicated SDR's
heap.  I<size> is the size of the
block to allocate; the maximum size is 1/2 of the maximum
address space size (i.e., 2G for a 32-bit machine).  Returns block address if
successful, zero if block could not be allocated.

=item Object sdr_insert(Sdr sdr, char *from, unsigned long size)

Uses sdr_malloc() to obtain a block of space of size I<size> and, if this
allocation is successful, uses sdr_write() to copy I<size> bytes of data
from memory at I<from> into the newly allocated block.  Returns block address
if successful, zero if block could not be allocated.

=item Object sdr_stow(sdr, variable)

sdr_stow() is a macro that uses sdr_insert() to insert a copy of I<variable>
into the dataspace.  The size of I<variable> is used as the number of bytes
to copy.

=item int sdr_object_length(Sdr sdr, Object object)

Returns the number of bytes of heap space allocated to the application
data at I<object>.

=item void sdr_free(Sdr sdr, Object object)

Frees for subsequent re-allocation the heap space occupied by I<object>.

=item void sdr_stage(Sdr sdr, char *into, Object from, int length)

Like sdr_read(), this function will copy I<length> characters
at I<from> (a location in the heap of the indicated SDR)
to the memory location given by I<into>.  Unlike
sdr_get(), sdr_stage() requires that I<from> be the address of
some allocated object, not just any location within the
heap.  sdr_stage(), when called from within a transaction, 
notifies the SDR library that the indicated object may be 
updated later in the transaction; this enables the library 
to retrieve the object's size for
later reference in validating attempts to write into
some location within the object.  If I<length> is zero, the
object's size is privately retrieved by SDR but none of the
object's content is copied into memory.

=item long sdr_unused(Sdr sdr)

Returns number of bytes of heap space not yet allocated to either the
large or small objects pool.

=item void sdr_usage(Sdr sdr, SdrUsageSummary *summary)

Loads the indicated SdrUsageSummary structure with a snapshot of the SDR's
usage status.  SdrUsageSummary is defined by:

    typedef struct
    {
       	    char            sdrName[MAX_SDR_NAME + 1];
       	    unsigned int    dsSize;
       	    unsigned int    smallPoolSize;
       	    unsigned int    smallPoolFreeBlockCount[SMALL_SIZES];
       	    unsigned int    smallPoolFree;
       	    unsigned int    smallPoolAllocated;
       	    unsigned int    largePoolSize;
       	    unsigned int    largePoolFreeBlockCount[LARGE_ORDERS];
       	    unsigned int    largePoolFree;
       	    unsigned int    largePoolAllocated;
       	    unsigned int    unusedSize;
    } SdrUsageSummary;

=item void sdr_report(SdrUsageSummary *summary)

Sends to stdout a printed summary of the SDR's usage status.

=item int sdr_heap_depleted(Sdr sdr)

A Boolean function: returns 1 if the total available space in the SDR's
heap (small pool free, large pool free, and unused) is less than 1/16
of the total size of the heap.  Otherwise returns zero.

=back

=head1 HEAP SPACE USAGE TRACING

If SDR_TRACE is defined at the time the SDR source code is compiled, the
system includes built-in support for simple tracing of SDR heap space usage:
heap space allocations are logged, and heap space deallocations are matched
to logged allocations, "closing" them.  This enables heap space leaks and
some other kinds of SDR heap access problems to be readily investigated.

=over 4

=item int sdr_start_trace(Sdr sdr, int traceLogSize, char *traceLogAddress)

Begins an episode of SDR heap space usage tracing.  I<traceLogSize> is the
number of bytes of shared memory to use for trace activity logging; the
frequency with which "closed" trace log events must be deleted will vary
inversely with the amount of memory allocated for the trace log.
I<traceLogAddress> is normally NULL, causing the trace system to allocate
I<traceLogSize> bytes of shared memory dynamically for trace logging; if
non-NULL, it must point to I<traceLogSize> bytes of shared memory that
have been pre-allocated by the application for this purpose.  Returns 0 on
success, -1 on any failure.

=item void sdr_print_trace(Sdr sdr, int verbose)

Prints a cumulative trace report and current usage report for 
I<sdr>.  If I<verbose> is zero, only exceptions (notably, trace
log events that remain open -- potential SDR heap space leaks) are printed;
otherwise all activity in the trace log is printed.

=item void sdr_clear_trace(Sdr sdr)

Deletes all closed trace log events from the log, freeing up memory for
additional tracing.

=item void sdr_stop_trace(Sdr sdr)

Ends the current episode of SDR heap space usage tracing.  If the shared
memory used for the trace log was allocated by sdr_start_trace(), releases
that shared memory.

=back

=head1 CATALOGUE FUNCTIONS

The SDR catalogue functions are used to maintain the catalogue of the
names, types, and addresses of objects within an SDR.  The catalogue
service includes functions for creating, deleting and finding catalogue
entries and a function for navigating through catalogue entries sequentially.

=over 4

=item void sdr_catlg(Sdr sdr, char *name, int type, Object object)

Associates I<object> with I<name> in the indicated SDR's catalogue and notes 
the I<type> that was declared for this object.  I<type> is optional and 
has no significance other than that conferred on it by the application.
  
The SDR catalogue is flat, not hierarchical like a directory tree, 
and all names must be unique.  The length of I<name> is limited to
15 characters.

=item Object sdr_find(Sdr sdr, char *name, int *type)

Locates the Object associated with I<name> in the indicated SDR's catalogue 
and returns its address; also reports the catalogued type of the object in 
I<*type> if I<type> is non-NULL.  Returns zero if no object is currently
catalogued under this name.

=item void sdr_uncatlg(Sdr sdr, char *name)

Dissociates from I<name> whatever object in the indicated
SDR's catalogue is currently catalogued under that name.

=item Object sdr_read_catlg(Sdr sdr, char *name, int *type, Object *object, Object previous_entry)

Used to navigate through catalogue entries sequentially.  If
I<previous_entry> is zero, reads the first entry in the
indicated SDR's catalogue; otherwise, reads the next catalogue
entry following the one located at I<previous_entry>.  In either case,
returns zero if no such catalogue entry exists; otherwise, copies that
entry's name, type, and catalogued object address into I<name>,
I<*type>, and I<*object>, and then returns the address of the catalogue
entry (which may be used as I<previous_entry> in a subsequent call
to sdr_read_catlg()).

=back

=head1 USER'S GUIDE

=over 4

=item Compiling an SDR application

Just be sure to "#include "sdr.h"" at the top of each source
file that includes any SDR function calls.

For UNIX applications, link with "-lsdr".

=item Loading an SDR application (VxWorks)

    ld < "libsdr.o"

After the library has been loaded, you can begin loading SDR applications.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

sdrlist(3), sdrstring(3), sdrtable(3)
