=head1 NAME

smlist - shared memory list management library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    #include "smlist.h"

    typedef int (*SmListCompareFn)
	(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress eltData, void *argData);
    typedef void (*SmListDeleteFn)
	(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress elt, void *argument);

    [see description for available functions]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The smlist library provides functions to create, manipulate
and destroy doubly-linked lists in shared memory.  As with lyst(3), 
smlist uses two types of objects, I<list> objects and
I<element> objects.  However, as these objects are stored in
shared memory which is managed by psm(3), pointers to these
objects are carried as PsmAddress values.  A list knows how
many elements it contains and what its first and last elements are.  
An element knows what list it belongs to and
the elements before and after it in its list.  An element
also knows its content, which is normally the PsmAddress of some
object in shared memory.

=over 4

=item PsmAddress sm_list_create(PsmPartition partition)

Create a new list object without any elements in it, within the memory
segment identified by I<partition>.  Returns the PsmAddress of the list,
or 0 on any error.

=item void sm_list_unwedge(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress list, int interval)

Unwedge, as necessary, the mutex semaphore protecting shared access to the
indicated list.  For details, see the explanation of the sm_SemUnwedge()
function in platform(3).

=item int sm_list_clear(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress list, SmListDeleteFn delete, void *argument);

Empty a list.  Frees each element of the list.  If the I<delete> function 
is non-NULL, that function is called once for each freed element; when
called, that function is passed the PsmAddress of the list element
and the I<argument> pointer passed to sm_list_clear().  Returns 0 on success,
-1 on any error.

=item int sm_list_destroy(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress list, SmListDeleteFn delete, void *argument);

Destroy a list.  Same as sm_list_clear(), but additionally frees the list
structure itself.  Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item int sm_list_user_data_set(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress list, PsmAddress userData);

Set the value of a user data variable associated with the list as a whole.
This value may be used for any purpose; it is typically used to store the
PsmAddress of a shared memory block containing data (e.g., state data) which
the user wishes to associate with the list.  Returns 0 on success, -1 on any
error.

=item PsmAddress sm_list_user_data(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress list);

Return the value of the user data variable associated with the list as a
whole, or 0 on any error.

=item int sm_list_length(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress list);

Return the number of elements in the list.

=item PsmAddress sm_list_insert(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress list, PsmAddress data, SmListCompareFn compare, void *dataBuffer);

Create a new list element whose data value is I<data> and insert it
into the given list.  If the I<compare> function is NULL, the new list element
is simply appended to the list; otherwise, the new list element is inserted
after the last element in the list whose data value is "less than or equal to"
the data value of the new element (in I<dataBuffer>) according to the
collating sequence established by I<compare>.  Returns the PsmAddress of
the new element, or 0 on any error.

=item PsmAddress sm_list_insert_first(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress list, PsmAddress data);

=item PsmAddress sm_list_insert_last(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress list, PsmAddress data);

Create a new list element and insert it at the start/end of a list.  Returns
the PsmAddress of the new element on success, or 0 on any
error.  Disregards any established sort order in the list.

=item PsmAddress sm_list_insert_before(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress elt, PsmAddress data);

=item PsmAddress sm_list_insert_after(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress elt, PsmAddress data);

Create a new list element and insert it before/after a given element.
Returns the PsmAddress of the new element on success, or 0
on any error.  Disregards any established sort order in the list.

=item int sm_list_delete(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress elt, SmListDeleteFn delete, void *argument);

Delete an element from a list.  If the I<delete> function is non-NULL, that
function is called upon deletion of I<elt>; when called, that function is
passed the PsmAddress of the list element and the I<argument>
pointer passed to sm_list_delete().  Returns 0 on success, -1 on any error.

=item PsmAddress sm_list_first(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress list);

=item PsmAddress sm_list_last(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress list);

Return the PsmAddress of the first/last element in I<list>, or 0 on any error.

=item PsmAddress sm_list_next(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress elt);

=item PsmAddress sm_list_prev(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress elt);

Return the PsmAddress of the element following/preceding I<elt> in
that element's list, or 0 on any error.

=item PsmAddress sm_list_search(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress elt, SmListCompareFn compare, void *dataBuffer);

Search a list for an element whose data matches the data in I<dataBuffer>.  If
the I<compare> function is non-NULL, the list is assumed to be sorted
in the order implied by that function and the function is automatically
called once for each element of the list until it returns a value that is
greater than or equal to zero (where zero indicates an exact match and a
value greater than zero indicates that the list contains no matching
element); each time I<compare> is called it is passed the PsmAddress that is
the element's data value and the I<dataBuffer> value passed to sm_list_search().
If I<compare> is NULL, then the entire list is searched until an element is
located whose data value is equal to ((PsmAddress) I<dataBuffer>).
Returns the PsmAddress of the matching element if one is found, 0 otherwise.

=item PsmAddress sm_list_list(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress elt);

Return the PsmAddress of the list to which I<elt> belongs, or 0
on any error.

=item PsmAddress sm_list_data(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress elt);

Return the PsmAddress that is the data value for I<elt>, or 0
on any error.

=item PsmAddress sm_list_data_set(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress elt, PsmAddress data);

Set the data value for I<elt> to I<data>, replacing the
original value.  Returns the original data value for I<elt>, or 0 on any
error.  The original data value for I<elt> may or may not have
been the address of an object in memory; even if it was, that object was
NOT deleted.  

Warning: changing the data value of an element of an ordered list may ruin
the ordering of the list.

=back

=head1 USAGE

A user normally creates an element and adds it to a list by doing the following:

=over 4

=item C<1>

obtaining a shared memory block to contain the element's data;

=item C<2>

converting the shared memory block's PsmAddress to a character pointer;

=item C<3>

using that pointer to write the data into the shared memory block;

=item C<4>

calling one of the I<sm_list_insert> functions to create the element 
structure (which will include the shared memory block's PsmAddress) 
and insert it into the list.

=back

When inserting elements or searching a list, the user may
optionally provide a compare function of the form:

    int user_comp_name(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress eltData, 
                       void *dataBuffer);

When provided, this function is automatically called by the smlist function
being invoked; when the function is called it is passed the content of a
list element (I<eltData>, nominally the PsmAddress of an item in shared
memory) and an argument, I<dataBuffer>, which is nominally the address
in local memory of some other item in the same format.
The user-supplied function normally compares some key values of the two
data items and returns 0 if they are equal, an integer less
than 0 if I<eltData>'s key value is less than that of I<dataBuffer>, and an
integer greater than 0 if I<eltData>'s key value is greater than that of
I<dataBuffer>.  These return values will produce a list in ascending order.  
If the user desires the list to be in descending
order, the function must reverse the signs of these return values.

When deleting an element or destroying a list, the user may
optionally provide a delete function of the form:

    void user_delete_name(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress elt, void *argData)

When provided, this function is automatically called by the smlist function
being invoked; when the function is called it is passed the address of a
list element (I<elt> and an argument, I<argData>, which if non-NULL is
normally the address
in local memory of a data item providing context for the list element deletion.
The user-supplied function performs any application-specific cleanup
associated with deleting the element, such as freeing the element's content
data item and/or other memory associated with the element.

=head1 EXAMPLE

For an example of the use of smlist, see the file smlistsh.c
in the utils directory of ICI.

=head1 SEE ALSO

lyst(3), platform(3), psm(3)
