=head1 NAME

smrbt - shared-memory red-black tree management library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    #include "smrbt.h"

    typedef int (*SmRbtCompareFn)
	(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress nodeData, void *dataBuffer);
    typedef void (*SmRbtDeleteFn)
	(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress nodeData, void *argument);

    [see description for available functions]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The smrbt library provides functions to create, manipulate
and destroy "red-black" balanced binary trees in shared memory.
smrbt uses two types of objects, I<rbt> objects and
I<node> objects; as these objects are stored in
shared memory which is managed by psm(3), pointers to these
objects are carried as PsmAddress values.  An rbt knows how
many nodes it contains and what its root node is.  
An node knows what rbt it belongs to and which nodes are its
parent and (up to 2) children.
A node also knows its content, which is normally the PsmAddress of some
object in shared memory.

=over 4

=item PsmAddress sm_rbt_create(PsmPartition partition)

Create a new rbt object without any nodes in it, within the memory
segment identified by I<partition>.  Returns the PsmAddress of the rbt,
or 0 on any error.

=item void sm_rbt_unwedge(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress rbt, int interval)

Unwedge, as necessary, the mutex semaphore protecting shared access to the
indicated rbt.  For details, see the explanation of the sm_SemUnwedge()
function in platform(3).

=item int sm_rbt_clear(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress rbt, SmRbtDeleteFn delete, void *argument);

Frees every node of the rbt, leaving the rbt empty.  If the I<delete> function 
is non-NULL, that function is called once for each freed node; when
called, that function is passed the PsmAddress that is the node's data
and the I<argument> pointer passed to sm_rbt_clear().  Returns 0 on success,
-1 on any error.

=item void sm_rbt_destroy(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress rbt, SmRbtDeleteFn delete, void *argument);

Destroy an rbt.  Frees all nodes of the rbt as in sm_rbt_clear(), then
frees the rbt structure itself.

=item int sm_rbt_user_data_set(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress rbt, PsmAddress userData);

Set the value of a user data variable associated with the rbt as a whole.
This value may be used for any purpose; it is typically used to store the
PsmAddress of a shared memory block containing data (e.g., state data) which
the user wishes to associate with the rbt.  Returns 0 on success, -1 on any
error.

=item PsmAddress sm_rbt_user_data(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress rbt);

Return the value of the user data variable associated with the rbt as a
whole, or 0 on any error.

=item int sm_rbt_length(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress rbt);

Return the number of nodes in the rbt.

=item PsmAddress sm_rbt_insert(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress rbt, PsmAddress data, SmRbtCompareFn compare, void *dataBuffer);

Create a new rbt node whose data value is I<data> and insert it into
I<rbt>.  The nodes of an rbt are ordered by their notional "key" values;
for this purpose, no two nodes may have the same key value.  The key value
of a node is assumed to be some function of the content of I<dataBuffer>,
which is assumed to be a representation in memory of the data value
indicated by I<data>, and that function must be implicit in the I<compare>
function, which must not be NULL.  The new rbt node is inserted into
the rbt in a tree location that preserves order in the tree, according to
the collating sequence established by I<compare>, and also ensures that
no path (from root to leaf) in the tree is more than twice as long as
any other path.  This makes searching the tree for a given data value
quite rapid even if the number of nodes in the tree is very large.  Returns
the PsmAddress of the new node, or 0 on any error.

=item void sm_rbt_delete(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress rbt, SmRbtCompareFn compare, void *dataBuffer, SmRbtDeleteFn delete, void *argument);

Delete a node from I<rbt>.  I<compare> must be the same function that was
used to insert the node: the tree must be dynamically re-balanced upon node
deletion, and the I<compare> function and the data value of the node that
is to be deleted (as represented in memory in I<dataBuffer>) are required for
this purpose.  (Since the function descends the tree in search of the
matching node anyway, in order to preserve balance, the address of the node
itself is not needed.)

If the I<delete> function is non-NULL, that function is called upon deletion
of the indicated node.  When called, that function is passed the PsmAddress
that is the node's data value and the I<argument> pointer passed to
sm_rbt_delete().

B<NOTE> that this function does something highly devious to avoid extra
tree-balancing complexity when node is deleted.  For details, see the code,
but the main point is that deleting a node B<WILL MOVE NODES WITHIN THE TREE>.
After the deletion, the next node may not be the one that would have been
reported if you passed the to-be-deleted node to sm_rbt_next() before
calling sm_rbt_delete().  This is important: do not apply updates (no
insertions, and especially no deletions) while you are traversing a
red-black tree sequentially.  If you do, the result will not be what you
expect.

=item PsmAddress sm_rbt_first(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress rbt);

=item PsmAddress sm_rbt_last(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress rbt);

Return the PsmAddress of the first/last node in I<rbt>, or 0 on any error.

=item PsmAddress sm_rbt_next(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress node);

=item PsmAddress sm_rbt_prev(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress node);

Return the PsmAddress of the node following/preceding I<node> in
that node's rbt, or 0 on any error.

B<NOTE> that the red-black tree node insertion and deletion functions 
B<WILL MOVE NODES WITHIN THE TREE>.
This is important: do not apply updates (no insertions, and especially no
deletions) while you are traversing a red-black tree sequentially, using
sm_rbt_next() or sm_rbt_prev().  If you do, the result will not be what you
expect.

=item PsmAddress sm_rbt_search(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress rbt, SmRbtCompareFn compare, void *dataBuffer, PsmAddress *successor);

Search I<rbt> for a node whose data matches the data in I<dataBuffer>.
I<compare> must be the same function that was used to insert all nodes
into the tree.  The tree is searched until a node is found whose data
value is "equal" (according to I<compare>) to the data value represented
in memory in I<dataBuffer>, or until it is known that there is no such
node in the tree.  If the matching node is found, the PsmAddress of that
node is returned and I<*successor> is set to zero.  Otherwise, zero is
returned and I<*successor> is set to the PsmAddress of the first node in
the tree whose key value is greater than the key value of I<dataBuffer>,
according to I<compare>, or to zero if there is no such successor node.

=item PsmAddress sm_rbt_rbt(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress node);

Return the PsmAddress of the rbt to which I<node> belongs, or 0
on any error.

=item PsmAddress sm_rbt_data(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress node);

Return the PsmAddress that is the data value for I<node>, or 0
on any error.

=back

=head1 USAGE

A user normally creates an node and adds it to a rbt by doing the following:

=over 4

=item C<1>

obtaining a shared memory block to contain the node's data;

=item C<2>

converting the shared memory block's PsmAddress to a character pointer;

=item C<3>

using that pointer to write the data into the shared memory block;

=item C<4>

calling the I<sm_rbt_insert> function to create the node structure (which
will include the shared memory block's PsmAddress) and insert it into the rbt.

=back

When inserting or deleting nodes or searching a rbt, the user must
provide a compare function of the form:

    int user_comp_name(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress node, 
                       void *dataBuffer);

This function is automatically called by the smrbt function being invoked;
when the function is called it is passed the data content of an rbt node
(I<node>, nominally the PsmAddress of an item in shared memory) and an
argument, I<dataBuffer>, which is nominally the address in local memory
of some other data item in the same format.  The user-supplied function
normally compares some key values of the two data items and returns 0 if
they are equal, an integer less than 0 if I<node>'s key value is less
than that of I<dataBuffer>, and an integer greater than 0 if I<node>'s
key value is greater than that of I<dataBuffer>.  These return values
will produce an rbt in ascending order.  

When deleting an node or destroying a rbt, the user may
optionally provide a delete function of the form:

    void user_delete_name(PsmPartition partition, PsmAddress node, 
                          void *argData)

When provided, this function is automatically called by the smrbt function
being invoked; when the function is called it is passed the content of a
rbt node (I<node>, nominally the PsmAddress of an item in shared
memory) and an argument, I<argData>, which if non-NULL is normally the address
in local memory of a data item providing context for the rbt node deletion.
The user-supplied function performs any application-specific cleanup
associated with deleting the node, such as freeing the node's content
data item and/or other memory associated with the node.

=head1 EXAMPLE

For an example of the use of smrbt, see the file smrbtsh.c
in the utils directory of ICI.

=head1 SEE ALSO

smrbtsh(1), platform(3), psm(3)
