=head1 NAME

tcpbso - TCP-based reliable link service output task for BSSP

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<tcpbso> {I<remote_engine_hostname> | @}[:I<remote_port_nbr>] I<remote_engine_nbr>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<tcpbso> is a background "daemon" task that extracts BSSP segments from the
queue of segments bound for the indicated remote BSSP engine and uses a TCP
socket to send them to the indicated TCP port on the indicated host.  If not
specified, port number defaults to 4556.

Each "span" of BSSP data interchange between the local BSSP engine and a
neighboring BSSP engine requires its own best-effort and reliable link service
output tasks. All link service output tasks are spawned automatically by
B<bsspadmin> in response to the 's' command that starts operation of the
BSSP protocol, and they are all terminated by B<bsspadmin> in response to an
'x' (STOP) command.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<tcpbso> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bsspadmin> to restart B<tcpbso>.

=item "1"

B<tcpbso> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bsspadmin> to restart B<tcpbso>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item tcpbso can't initialize BSSP.

B<bsspadmin> has not yet initialized BSSP protocol operations.

=item No such engine in database.

I<remote_engine_nbr> is invalid, or the applicable span has not yet
been added to the BSSP database by B<bsspadmin>.

=item RL-BSO task is already started for this engine.

Redundant initiation of B<tcpbso>.

=item RL-BSO can't open TCP socket

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart B<tcpbso>.

=item RL-BSO can't bind TCP socket

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart B<tcpbso>.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ABSO

bsspadmin(1), tcpbsi(1), udpbso(1)
