=head1 NAME

udpbso - UDP-based best-effort link service output task for BSSP

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<udpbso> {I<remote_engine_hostname> | @}[:I<remote_port_nbr>] I<txbps> I<remote_engine_nbr>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<udpbso> is a background "daemon" task that extracts BSSP segments from the
queue of segments bound for the indicated remote BSSP engine, encapsulates
them in UDP datagrams, and sends those datagrams to the indicated UDP port
on the indicated host.  If not specified, port number defaults to 6001.

UDP congestion can be controlled by setting udpbso's rate of UDP datagram
transmission I<txbps> (transmission rate in bits per second) to the value
that is supported by the underlying network.

Each "span" of BSSP data interchange between the local BSSP engine and a
neighboring BSSP engine requires its own best-effort and reliable link service
output tasks. All link service output tasks are spawned automatically by
B<bsspadmin> in response to the 's' command that starts operation of the
BSSP protocol, and they are all terminated by B<bsspadmin> in response to an
'x' (STOP) command.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<udpbso> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.  If
this termination was not commanded, investigate and solve the problem identified
in the log file and use B<bsspadmin> to restart B<udpbso>.

=item "1"

B<udpbso> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bsspadmin> to restart B<udpbso>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item udpbso can't initialize BSSP.

B<bsspadmin> has not yet initialized BSSP protocol operations.

=item No such engine in database.

I<remote_engine_nbr> is invalid, or the applicable span has not yet
been added to the BSSP database by B<bsspadmin>.

=item BE-BSO task is already started for this engine.

Redundant initiation of B<udpbso>.

=item BE-BSO can't open UDP socket

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart B<udpbso>.

=item BE-BSO can't bind UDP socket

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and restart B<udpbso>.

=item Segment is too big for UDP BSO.

Configuration error: segments that are too large for UDP transmission (i.e.,
larger than 65535 bytes) are being enqueued for B<udpbso>.  Use B<bsspadmin>
to change maximum segment size for this span.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ABSO

bsspadmin(1), tcpbso(1), udpbsi(1)
