=head1 NAME

dgr2file - DGR reception test program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dgr2file>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<dgr2file> uses DGR to receive multiple copies of the text of a file
transmitted by B<file2dgr>, writing each copy of the file to the current
working directory.  The name of each file written by B<dgr2file> is
file_copy_I<cycleNbr>, where I<cycleNbr> is initially zero and is increased
by 1 every time B<dgr2file> closes the file it is currently writing and
opens a new one.

Upon receiving a DGR datagram from B<file2dgr>, B<dgr2file> extracts the
content of the datagram (either a line of text from the file that is being
transmitted by B<file2dgr> or else an EOF string indicating the end of that
file).  It appends each extracted line of text to the local copy of that
file that B<dgr2file> is currently writing.  When the extracted datagram
content is an EOF string (the ASCII text "*** End of the file ***"),
B<dgr2file> closes the file it is writing, increments I<cycleNbr>, opens
a new copy of the file for writing, and prints the message "working on cycle
I<cycleNbr>."

B<dgr2file> always receives datagrams at port 2101.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<dgr2file> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item can't open dgr service

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item can't open output file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item dgr_receive failed

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item can't write to output file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

file2dgr(1), dgr(3)
