=head1 NAME

file2dgr - DGR transmission test program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<file2dgr> I<remoteHostName> I<fileName> [I<nbrOfCycles>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<file2dgr> uses DGR to send I<nbrOfCycles> copies of the text of the file
named I<fileName> to the B<dgr2file> process running on the computer identified
by I<remoteHostName>.  If not specified (or if less than 1), I<nbrOfCycles>
defaults to 1.  After sending all lines of the file, B<file2dgr> sends a
datagram containing an EOF string (the ASCII text "*** End of the file ***")
before reopening the file and starting transmission of the next copy.

When all copies of the file have been sent, B<file2dgr> prints a performance
report:

	Bytes sent = I<byteCount>, usec elapsed = I<elapsedTime>.

	Sending I<dataRate> bits per second.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<file2dgr> has terminated.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Diagnostic messages produced by B<file2dgr> are written to the ION log
file I<ion.log>.

=over 4

=item Can't open dgr service.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item Can't open input file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item Can't acquire DGR working memory.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item Can't reopen input file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item Can't read from input file

Operating system error.  Check errtext, correct problem, and rerun.

=item dgr_send failed.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing
the cause of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <ion-dtn-support@lists.sourceforge.net>

=head1 SEE ALSO

file2dgr(1), dgr(3)
